The American Revolution: written in Scriptural, or Ancient Historical Style 
[First published in part in 1793, serially in 1794-1795]
by Richard Snowden 

C H A P. I 

The East-India Company ship their Tea to America, charged with a Duty, for the pur- 
pose of raising a Revenue. 

IN the thirteenth year of the reign of George the king, whose dominions extended from the island of Britain to the uttermost parts of the earth! 
2. The same year the king made a decree to tax the people of the provinces in the laud of Columbia, for they had paid no tribute to the king, neither they nor their forefathers. 
3. Nevertheless, they gave the king every year a free-will offering (not as tributaries) for they were freemen, and were never in bondage to any; 
4. Neither were they seditious to the interest of Caesar, they loved the king, and meddled not with those who were given to change : his enemies were their enemies, and they fought the battles of the king. 
5. And the decree went forth from White-hall (the palace,) and it was sealed with the king's signet. 
6. And the governors of the provinces were commanded to make the thing known to the people. 
7. Now when the people of the provinces had seen the writing of the decree, and knew that it was sealed with the king's signet, they were sorely grieved, and there a very great murmuring, the sound American Revolution, like the rushing of mighty waters! 
8. And there were st that time a company of merchants in the town of Lud,1 that ancient city, who had a navy of ships that went once in three years to a far country to traffic with the merchants of the East for the Indian weed.  
9. And the merchants sold the weed to the people of the kingdom of Britain at a certain price, and it brought  much wealth into the treasury of the king. 
10.: Notwithstanding it was no better than the herbage of the Field, or the "hyssop which groweth in the garden of the husbandman; yet the people loved to have it so. 
II. Now the women of the land put the weed into fine earthen vessels, and they put water into the vessels, and they poured out drink offerings thereof into cups of enamel work; and It was their morning and evening potation, 
12. And the merchants who trafficked in the Indian weed, spake before the king and said, 
12. Thou O King! hast made a decree, that the people of the provinces in the land of Columbia, shall pay tribute to the king in like manner as we do here in Britain, 
14, Be it known unto thee O King! that our store-houses are filled with the Indian weed, by the gains thereof the strength of thy kingdom is greatly increased. 
35. Nevertheless the people of this thy realm of Britain, are not able to consume the one half of that which now is in our store houses, before the ships will arrive from the country of the East; so the merchants will suffer loss, and the revenue of the king will fail : 
16. How if it please the king, let the ships of the merchants be laden therewith, and let them be sent to the land, of Columbia, to the people of the provinces, that they may buy thereof, and pay a tribute to the king over and above the price of the merchants. 
17. For lo! thy servants have heard they inhabit a fat land! a land of corn and wine, that bringeth forth fruit in its season, and where all the fruits of the forest do grow! 
lo. And moreover it hath been told thy servants, that they drink out of vessels of gold and vessels of silver! which is not seemly for any to do except it be the servants of the king, whom he hath set over the realm, and dignified with great honor, 
19. And the sayings of the merchants pleased the king and his nobles; and he commanded that it should be even so as the merchants had desired. 
20. Then were all the store-houses set open, and the Indian weed was brought forth in chests made of the fir-tree, and the chests were lined with broad sheets of lead, to preserve the weed from the waters. 
21. And the chests were put upon carriages that were part of wood, and part of iron, and horses were put to the carriages, (now there were no such carriages in the days of Solomon.) 
22. And they went by the way of the steet of the city, until thou comest to the tower of Lud, which looketh towards the river, where was a fair haven for ships. 
23. Now when the ships had taken in their lading, the mariners spread their sails to the wind, and unloosed their rudder-bands, and launched out into the great deep; and after they had set a compass, they steered a strait course to the land of Columbia, that lieth to the westward of Britain, twenty-four thousand furlongs. 

CHAP. II 

The Tea arrives on the coast of America , and is destroyed ai Boston. "The port of Boston is shut up. 

And it came to pass, when it was known to the people of the provinces, what had been done in the island of Britain, and that the merchant ships had sailed. 
2. They were greatly moved at the report thereof  and the moving of the people was like the moving of the tall cedars, when the south wind bloweth upon them! 
3. And the people arose, as the sand of the sea for multitude, to oppose the decree of the king; and the number that conspired against receiving the weed was more than forty thousand men! 
4. And when the ships had arrived on the coast of Columbia, and the mariners were gone down into the sides of the ships; lo! Seventeen lion-like men from the province of the East,2 disguised themselves like barbarians,3 and went into the ships; and It was about the fourth watch of the night : 
5. And they cast the Indian weed into the waters of the river, and it was swallowed up of the waters! 
6. Now when the morning was come, there was no small stir amongst the soldiers; and they made diligent search for the conspirators; but they had hid themselves, and the thing was not known. 
7. And letters were sent into every province, exhorting the people, far and near, to choose deputies from amongst: the people that they might take counsel concerning this thing : and it was so. 
8. And it came to pass when the deputies had gathered themselves together, that they also chose other deputies, men of wisdom, out of every province. And they all met at one place; and these were called the great Sanhedrim4 of the people. 
9. And the rest of the provinces, although they destroyed not the Indian weed, as the  provinces of the East had done, yet they suffered not the mariners to unlade the ships. 
10. Now when the captains of the ships saw that the people abhorred the decree of the king, they forbore to unlade the ships, left a tumult should be made. 
11. And when they had refreshed themselves, they departed from the coast of Columbia, and sailed to the island of Britain. 
13. And when tidings came to the king of Britain, how that the people of the provinces had refused to obey the decree that he had made, and had destroyed the Indian weed. 
14 He was exceeding wrath, and the form of his visage was changed; and he hastily called his nobles, his counsellors, and his wise men, that they might advise together touching this matter. 
14. And a certain lord* who stood near the king, who was chief counselor in the realm of Britain, spake before the king and said, 
15. Inasmuch, O king! as the people of the provinces refuse to obey the decree thou hast made; if it seem good unto the king to hearken to the counsel of his servant, then let the king make another decree; 
16. And let the writing of the decree be sent to the governor of the king's garrison, in the town of Boston, which lieth nigh unto Salem, in the province of the East : 
17. And if it please the king, let the governor, and the captain of the king's ships be commanded, that they take away from the town, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water; the ships and the merchandise :and instead of plenty let there be a famine, and instead of peace, a sword! 
18. And when the lord had done speaking, there was a great shout among the people; his counsel was as the counsel of Ahithopel, in the days of David, king of Israel! and he was set over the whole realm, and was next unto the king. 
19. And the counsel pleased the king and his servants; and the king made a decree, and sent it to the governor by one of the tall ships of Britain. 
20. And when the governor of the town had received the king's letters, he set a watch in the gate thereof : and the captain of the king's ship cast anchor in the river, and no ship could pass that way. 
21. Now it came to pass, when the people of the provinces had heard that their brethren in the town were in a great strait, they sent to speak comfortable words unto them, and gave them goodly gifts. 
22. And the great council of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people wrote a petition to the king, wherein they besought him, not to cast off his people, for they were his own inheritance; but that he would look towards them as in times past, 
23. And the petition was given to Benjamin, to give to the king : now this Benjamin was a wise man, and his name was much set by amongst  the people; he exceeded all the ancients in wisdom and knowledge. 
24. He taught the people the hidden mysteries of nature, which had lain hid from the foundation of the world, and which our fathers knew not. 

Chap. III
Dr. Franklin presents the Petition of Congress to the Parliament of Great Britain.

And when Benjamin came into the great Council of the kingdom, the eyes of all the people were fastened upon him! 
2. The princes refrained talking, and the nobles held their peace! they were struck dumb at the wisdom of his words, and they laid their hands upon their mouths! 
3. Twice they essayed to speak, yea thrice; but were confounded! for they could not refill the wisdom of his sayings; for an excellent spirit was in him. 
4. Howbeit, they had determined before hand, that the petition of the people of the provinces should not be regarded, for the chief councellor of the kingdom favoured it not. 
5. Now there were many in the kingdom at that time, who were fed by the king, and were maintained by his bounty. 
6. These men were like the locusts of Egypt, they devoured every goodly thing, yea, they were like the wolves of the evening hunting for their prey. 
7. Now these men watched the words of the chief counselor, whatsoever he said, they said; they were like the passive clay in the hands of the potter. 
8. And the petition was rejected by the king and the great council of the kingdom, for it was determined to make war upon the people of the provinces, that they might be brought under the yoke. 
9. And soldiers were sent from the land of Hibernia, and from places beyond the sea, and Thomas5 was appointed governor in the province of the East. 
10. He was also captain of the host of the men of Britain that were in the town of Boston, and he strengthened himself in the town, and caused battlements to be built. 
11. Now while these things were doing in the land of Columbia, there were certain men in the city of Lud, the chief city of the kingdom of Britain 
12. They were men who loved peace, and were zealous to make up the breach betwixt the king and the people, and to heal the wounds the enemy had made. 
13. They met at the house of John the physician; now this John was a worthy man, and beloved by the king and his chief servants. 
14. Davld also who was of the seed royal, a wise man, and one that loved peace; these two men held a secret council with Benjamin at the house of John the physician. 
15. They reasoned together about the affairs of the provinces and balanced in their minds things present and things to come : they were guided by wisdom, and the words of their mouths distilled as the small rain upon the tender grass.
16. Yet they could not withstand the torrent of opposition, for the god of this world had blinded the eyes of the great council of the kingdom; and there were of them, who burned incense at the altar of Mammon, and followed after filthy lucre. 
17. And Benjamin seeing that the time of his departure from the kingdom of Britain was at hand, he took leave of his friends and went into a ship that was going to the land of Columbia, the place of his nativity. 
:8. And it came to pass, when the ship had arrived, and it was known to the people of the provinces that Benjamin their brother was returned from the island of Britain, that there was a great rejoicing throughout the whole land. 
19. And he came to Philadelphia, which by interpretation signifieth the city of Love; it was the chief city of the provinces; and the wise men of the city led him to the great Sanhedrim of the people, and he sat in a chief seat. 
20. And Benjamin arose upon his feet, and he rehearsed to the Sanhedrim all that he had heard and seen in the island of Britain, and in the great council of the kingdom : and moreover he told them that the chief counsellor favoured them not. 
21. Now when Benjamin had done speaking in the Sanhedrim, and the council had consulted upon the words that fell from his mouth they took courage, and they set at naught the big swelling words of the lord of the realm of Britain. 

CHAP. IV. 

General Gage sends a party to destroy the Military Stores at Concord, The first Commencement of Hostilities at Lexington. 

And it came to pass, that Thomas, captain of the host of the king of Britain, privately sent a chosen band of men, about the eleventh hour of the night, to a place called in the Italian tongue, Concordia, to destroy the store-houses of the people, and the implements for war. 
2. Yet notwithstanding it was the night season, when the soldiers set out, and the governor kept a strict watch, yet the people of the province had notice thereof, 
3. And there assembled together of people of the province, three score and ten persons, and the soldiers of the king of Britain, were eight hundred valiant men. 
4. And when the soldiers saw that the people of the province were collected together, they shouted with a great shout, and as they shouted they shot at the people of the province, and it was said that some of the people were slain. 
5. And it came to pass, that John, captain of a company of the province, when he heard the shouting of the men of war, that he armed himself and ran, and about four hundred men followed after him to the battle : 
6. And they overtook the soldiers of the king of Britain, at a place called in the vernacular tongue, Lexington; and they fought with them there; and the soldiers fled by the highway of the country; and John and the men who were with him, followed hard after them, warring as they went, until thou comest to the Mountain* that looketh towards the town : 
7. And the men of Britain were very weary and chafed in their minds; and it was about the going down of the sun when they ascended the mountain; and they rested there that night. 
8. And on the morrow they passed over the river and went into the town; and the number of the slain of the men of Britain were three score and five persons; and their fell of the people of the provinces two score and ten men. 
9. And it came to pass when it was known throughout the land of Columbia, that some of the people of the provinces were slain by the soldiers of the king of Britain; 
10. That the leaders of the people cried out, saying; What part have we in George, or what inheritance in the house of Brunswick ? lo! he hath cast us off as aliens to his house, and dealeth with us as with enemies. 
11. Then the people strengthened themselves greatly, and encouraged one another to fight manfully for their country, their wives and their little ones. 
12. And the people accustomed themselves to the exercises of war j and instead of the voice of melody and the songs of gladness, the sound of the trumpet and the shouting of the warriors were heard.
13. Yet, notwithstanding, the great coun- cil cf the provinces, even the great Sanhe- drim of the people, again besought tl-e king of Britain, that he would grant them peace, and call back his army from their borders : 
14. But he was deaf to all their cries, and the lord, the chief counsellor of Britain, when he was told, that some of the servants of the king had been slain by the people in the land of Columbia; 
15. That he was exceedingly wrath, and he said, Lo! these men want only to gain time to strengthen themselves for the battle --they cry peace, peace, and war is in their hearts. 
16. But let the king now send over another army greater than the first, and let the ablest captains of the boil of Britain be sent over to the land of Columbia, that they may make an end at once. 
17. And moreover he said. Is not the confederacy of the rebellious provinces, as tho' a man made a rope with the sand that is on the sea shore, which when it is broken will never unite again ? 
i3. And another lord said on this wise, are not the people of the provinces like unto the wild roe upon the mountains, that fleeth before the hunters ? one man of the army of Britain will chase an hundred, will put ten thousand to flight. 
19. And it was so, that the king hearken ed to the voice of the chief counsellor, and he ordered the captains of the host to muster an army to go to the land of Columbia, to subdue the people of the provinces. 
20. And the captains hastened to obey the king's command, inasmuch as the lord of Britain was urgent for the business to be done and the soldiers were put into the ships, with all instruments for war. 
21. And when the ships were ready, and had taken m their lading, they hoisted up their anchors, and loosed their sails to the wind, and steered their course westward for the land of Columbia. 

CHAP. V. 

Fresh troops arrive from Great Britain. The battle on Bunker's Hill 

And it came to pass, after that the army of the king of Britain had gotten safe to land, that the people of the provinces consulted together concerning the war. 
2. Now there was a mountain6 on a neck of land, that overlooked the town, and the people of the provinces desired to have it for a place of defence, and essayed to take possession thereof by subtility. 
3. And they went up to the top of the mountain, and they toiled hard all night, and placed battlements on the mountain; and lo! when the sun was risen upon the earth, the captains of the host of Britain looked, and behold they saw the people of the provinces on the top of the mountain; and they were astonished out of measure! 
4. And about the twelfth hour of the, day, Thomas, the captain of the host of Britain, sent an army to drive the people from off the mountain; and the number of men that he sent, was about three thousand. 
5. And the three thousand men passed over the mountain, and there was but a small space between the two armies : and the people of the provinces encamped on the mountain. 
6. And they put the battle in array, army against army; and the battle waxed hot, and there fell of the men of Britain, one thousand and fifty-four. And there were slain of the people of the provinces, one hundred and thirty-nine. 
7. Yet, notwithstanding the army of the king of Britain gained the top of the mountain, and they built a strong hold there, and placed a garrison of soldiers in the midst thereof, 
8. Howbeit, it was a sore battle; and the captain of the host of the people of the provinces, whose surname was Warren was slain; and the people mourned for him many days. 
9. And on the same day, the host of the king of Britain burned a town7 with fire, that appertained to the province, and the people of the town lost all their possessions. 
10. After these things, the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people sent another petition to the king, en- treating him after the former manner, but they could not prevail. 
11. Then the people of the provinces de spaired of being reconciled to the king, inas much as he harkned to the voice of the chief counsellor their enemy : then they exhorted one another to be of good courage. 
12. And the great Sanhedrim of the people, consulted together where they should find a man that would be able to go out before the host of Columbia, and order the battle for them. 
13. And they chose George  whose sur- name was Washington,  he was from the south country, and had a goodly inheritance on Mount Vernon, and flocks and herds in. abundance. 

14. He was a manor war from his youth, was beloved of the people, and his bowels yearned towards them in the day of their ca lamity! he was also one of the princes of the provinces, and sat in the Sanhedrim of the people, who bore the burthen in the heat of the day. 
15. And there were other captains appointed under him; and the names of the captains were these, Artemus, Charles, Philip, Israel, Horatio, Seth, Richard, David, William, Joseph, John whose surname was Thomas, and John and Nathaniel.  These were all mighty men of valour, but George was chief captain. 
1 6. And the chief captain of the host of the people of the provinces, took his way to the army that was encamped nigh unto the host of the king of Britain. 
17. And as he passed along the highway of the country, the chief men of the provinces came out to do him honor. 
1 8. And lo! when he arrived at the camp, he found them, as sheep having no shepherd, every man doing that which was right in his own eyes. 
29. And he appointed unto every man his work; and the people served him willingly, and with a ready mind; for whatsoever he did pleased the people. 

CHAP. VI. 

General Gage returns to England; succeeded by General Howe, The Americans fit out Privateers. The burning of Falmouth by the British, 
Now  it came to pass towards the end of the year, that Thomas, the chief captain of the host of the king, was commanded to return to the island of Britain, to give an account to the king, touching the affairs of the provinces. 
2. And William was appointed chief captain in his stead. Now William had a brother who was a lord, and a valiant man; he went out against: the servants of the king of Gaul; for the king of Gaul was formerly at war with the people of the provinces, and with the king of  Britain. 
3. And the people of the provinces loved the brother of William : they fought by his side against the servants of the king of Gaul; and he was slain in battle. 
4. And the people set up a statue of hewn stone, and fashioned it with the tools of the cunning workman, after the manner of those days; and it stood for a memorial of his valiant acts. 
5. And there was yet another brother, who was a chief captain in the king's navy; he was also a lord of the realm of Britain. 
6. And he sent the ships of the navy to lie in wait for the merchants' ships that sailed out of the rivers of Columbia, and the navy of the king of Britain, was spread over the face of the great deep. 
7. Now sailing became dangerous, by reason of the ships of the king of Britain, inasmuch as they took the mariners captives, and carried the ships of Columbia to their own. coasts. 
8. These ships were armed with engines, such as were not known in the days of old : fire and balls issued out of their mouths; and the men who had the charge thereof, could shoot the balls to an hair's breadth! They were the invention of Satan, and as it is written in the book of John8 the sweet finger of Albion. 
9. Then the people of the provinces communed together concerning this thing; and the great Sanhedrim of the people sent to the men w ho were occupied at the burning fiery furnace, that they should make engines like unto the engines that were in the ships of the navy of the king of Britain. 
10. And the men heated the furnace seven times hotter than it was wont to be heated, and they cast the iron into the furnace, and lo! it became an engine to destroy men! 
II. And the captains of the ships of the land of Columbia, took the engines into the ships, and made all speed to war with the sea captains of the island of Britain. 
12. And a captain of one of the ships that the Sahedrim sent out, found a ship that was going to the army which was encamped in the town; and the shiip was laden with all implements for war, to strengthen the host of the king of Britain. 
13. And the mariners were made captives, and the ship was taken into a haven that belonged to the people of the provinces : and when they were unloading the ship, lo! they found great store of the destroying engines; some of them were of brass, and some of iron:: and the people rejoiced greatly, 
14. And the other captains did even as the former captain had done; and they took captive many of the ships of the king of Britain with the mariners thereof, and the strength of Columbia was increased thereby. 
15. Now the servants of the king of Britain were sorely vexed, inasmuch as they stood in need of those things that were found in the ships, which the captains of the provinces had taken. 
16. And they were filled with wrath, and lusted after revenge; for they were chaffed in their minds as a bear robbed of her whelps. And it came to pass, that a sea captain of the navy of the king of Britain, burned a town9 that lay nigh unto the sea coast. 

CHAP. VII. 
Colonels Allen and Arnold surprise Ticonderoga. Subsequent operations in Canada. 

NOW there was a strong hold, called in the French tongue, Ticonderoga; and there was a garrison of soldiers in the hold, who were the servants of the king of Britain and the people of the provinces desired to have it for a possession, 
2. And they sent Ethan  and Benedict, two lion-like men, towards the hold; and there followed after them two hundred and seventy men, whose dwellings were in the mountain, and they were all valiant men. 
3. And it was about the third watch of the night when Ethan and Benedict came against the hold. Now there was a river10 betwixt them and the strong hold. 
4. And about the cock-crowing, the two captains, Ethan and Benedict took with them four score and three men. and passed over the river; and they gat into the hold before the governor thereof had arisen from his couch, for his eyes were yet heavy with sleep, 
5. And when the governor opened his eyes, lo! he saw Ethan and Benedict had gotten into the hold; and he demanded of them by what authority they did these things, and who gave them that authority, 
6. Then Ethan raised his voice aloud and said, Our authority is from the Great Jehovah and the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people, whose servants we are. 
7. Then the governor's heart melted within him, when he heard the voice of Ethan and he delivered up the strong hold with the garrison thereof, to the two captains, Ethan and Benedict; and the garrison were made captives. 
8. And it came to pass that when the great Sanhedrim of the people were told of the valiant acts of Ethan and Benedict, they rejoiced in secret at the zeal of the two captains. 
9. But, inasmuch as they desired to make a covenant of peace with the king of the island of Britain, they made a decree that the spoil that was found in the hold, should be conveyed to a place of safety, that it might be ready at a future day when called for. 
10. And the heart of Benedict was lifted up, and he cast in his mind, how he should get possession of the whole province that lay Northward from the hold : (now the inhabitants of the land were called Canadians) and he wrote letters to the great Sandhedrim, touching the matter; and the princes of the provinces, even the great Sandhedrim of the people harkened to the voice of Benedict. 
11. Now Guy who was governor of the province, and servant to the king of Britain, when he heard that the strong hold was taken by Ethan and Benedict, he thought to have gone against it and to have gotten possession thereof for the king his master. 
12. But the men of war who were with the governor were few in number, and he essayed to persuade the Canadians and the barbarians of the wilderness, to fight under the banners of the king of Britain, but he could not prevail. 
13. And when the Sanhedrim of the provinces were told that Guy the king's governor, was minded to go against: the hold that Ethan and Benedict had taken, they were troubled in their minds; 
14. And they said, Lo! if we suffer the governor to establish himself in the hold, the king of Britain will bring against us from the North borders, the barbarians of the wilderness and the Canadians, and we shall be environed round about by the armies of the king, and we shall of a certainty fall before the host of the king of Britain. 
15. But let us quit ourselves like men, and let an army be sent Northward to oppose the king's governor, and let the captain of the host be commanded to speak comfortably to the Canadians; peradventure they will be a strength to the host of the people of the provinces, and fight under the banners of Columbia. 
1 6. And Philip and Montgomery were appointed chief captains of the army that was sent to oppose the king's governor; and they took their way towards the strong hold, and the host of the people of the provinces followed after them. 
17. And when the host of the people had entered the borders of the province, Philip delivered an oration unto the inhabitants of the land, even to the Canadians; and the words that he spake were on this wise, that the people of the provinces were not come to oppress, but to deliver them from their oppressors 
18. And the natives showed them no small kindness, they brought of the first fruits of the land to refresh the army of the people of the provinces, and many other such things did they do. 
19. Now there was another strong hold that was garrisoned by the soldiers of the king of Britain, and it was called St. John's after the superstition of that country; and they essayed to gain possession thereof. 
20. The hold was very strong, and the chief captains of the host held a council together, and the greater part advised to depart thence to a certain island, called in the French tongue, The Isle aux Noix, to the South of the hold about ninety-six furlongs, 
21. Now Philip was taken sick, by reason whereof he could not go out before the host: as at other times; and he departed thence, and journeyed onwards until he came to the hold that Ethan and Benedict had taken; and he sojourned there for a season. 
22. And Montgomery, the chief captain, returned back again to the hold, for it grieved him that he had left it, left the soldiers in the garrison should think that he had turned his back upon them through fear; and he cast a bank against the hold, and placed the destroying engines on the bank which he had cast up. 
23. But he could not prevail, inasmuch as the black dust, which they put into their engines, began to fail. Now the dust was made of nitre and brimstone and without it, the engines could do nothing. 
24. Now there was yet another hold that was garrisoned by some of the soldiers of the king of Britain, and it was about forty and eight furlongs from the place where the host of the people of the provinces were encamped. 
25. And Montgomery, the chief  captain, sent a captain with a band of men to take possession thereof; but he abode there still. 
26. And the captain, and the men who were sent with him, did as they were commanded  and they prevailed against the hold and took it and found much spoil therein; and amongst the spoil there was found large quantities of the black dust for the destroying engines. 
 And the spoil and the captives were brought to the camp, and Montgomery , the chief captain, when he saw the black dust, commanded that the destroying engines should be set to work, and the noise thereof was like the noise of mighty thunders! 

CHAP. VIII. 

St. John's taken — Col. Allen captured and sent to England-— Montgomery Slain, 

NOW when it was told Guy, the king's governor, that the garrison were in a great strait, he gathered together about eight hundred men, and he hastened to deliver the garrison from fallng a prey to the host of Columbia. 
2. And it was so that as he was passing the river, a certain captain, with three hun dred men, servants to the Sanhedrim of the provinces, lay in ambush, and they arose up, and fell upon the men who were with the governor,  and drove them back again : and the men who lay in ambush, had their habitations in the mountains. 
3. Now when the captain of the garrison knew that the governor had been foiled in battle, his spirit sunk within him, and he delivered up the hold to Montgomery, the chief captain, and the soldiers of the garrison were all made captives. 
4. And it was about this time, that Ethan was sent with about four score  men, to do a certain thing, and as he was returning, on his way to the camp, the governor came out against him; 
5. And Ethan and the men who were with him, fought with the governor, but could not prevail; and he was taken captive, with three score and eight persons; and there were slain of the men of Ethan fifteen; and the residue made their escape : and Ethan was sent bound to the island of Britain. 
6. And it came to pass, that Montgomery, the chief captain of the host, journeyed onwards to a town,11wherein were some soldiers, who were servants to the king of Britain. 
7. Now when the captain of the soldiers was told that Montgomery the chief captain, was coming against: the town, he put his soldiers into the king's ships, which had cast anchor in the river : and the men who had fled into the ships, hastened down the river, hoping to escape that way. 
8. But a captain, whose sirname was Easton, and servant to the Sanhedrim of the people, withstood the ships, and overcame them, and took the people captives, and got much spoil out of the ships. 
9. And it came to pass, that George, chief captain of all the armies of Columbia, being mindful of his brethren who were warring with the king's governor, and fearing lest: the men who were with the captain, Montgomery, were too few; he sent Benedict and a thousand men with him to strengthen the host. 
10. And Benedict took his way through the wilderness, and the thousand men followed after him. Now the way was difficult to pass, it was a land of pits and snares, the foot of the wayfaring man had not trod therein, neither were the flocks of the sons of men seen in the way : it was a covert for the beasts of prey, and far from the dwellings of man! 
11. And three hundred and forty of the men returned back again, and the residue followed after Benedict: and it came to pass, that the bread failed in their vessels, they were  famished with hunger, and their tongues clave to the roof of their mouths; yet the spirit of a man was in them, and it sustained them! they pressed forwards until they came to the inhabited parts of the province, and the natives ministered to their necessities. 
12. And it came to pass that the watchman on the wall of the city,12 looked, and behold he saw a multitude of armed men coming out of the wilderness; and he cried aloud, and said, Lo! I see a company coming from the wilderness, and the banners of the great Sanhedrim are amongst them! 
13. And Montgomery, the chief captain, and Benedict besieged the town round about; and they cast a bank against it; and they planted the destroying engines on the bank that they had cast up; and they essayed to batter the town, but could not prevail, for it was built upon a rock. 
14. And Montgomery the chief captain, being minded to take the town by force, sent a messenger to the governor thereof, warning him to deliver up the town with the garrison, that the blood of the inhabitants might not be spilt. 
15. But the governor hearkened not unto the voice of Montgomery, but shot at the messenger from the wall, and the messenger returned. 
1 5. Then the chief captain, Montgomery divided the host into four bands, and he appointed a captain to each band, and it came to pass in the morning, about the time of the cock-crowing, the four bands moved towards the town; now it was the chief town of the province, 
17. And, as the chief captain and his armour-bearer had passed the first barrier, and were about to enter the second, lo! a ball from the destroying engines felled them both to the earth. 
18. And Benedict was wounded, and they carried him from the field of battle; but the men behaved valiantly; nevertheless they could not prevail against the governor and the men who were with him; and the governor took captive of the people of the provinces three hundred men, and the slain and wounded were four score, 
19. And when the governor saw the chief captain fall to the earth, his soul was moved within him — his repentings were kindled— he took the bleeding warrior by the hand, and the tear of humanity dropt from his eyelids! — he endeavored to raise him from the earth, but in vain! — the vital spirit was fled, and the shadows of the evening were slretched over him! 
20. They laid his body upon the bier— they bore him to the tomb — to the house appointed for all the living! — He received the last office of love from Guy, the generous foe of Columbia! 
21. The princes of the provinces will bewail the loss of their brother! and thy name O Guy! Shall be had in everlasting remembrance! The scribes of Columbia shall record thy worth, and transmlt thy virtues to posterity! 
22. The captives thou didst take with thy sword, were sent to their dwellings in peace! their wants were supplied by thy bounty, and the sick were relieved by thy care! The blessings of the poor came upon thee! and the heart of the captives leaped for joy! 

CHAP. IX. 

Transadions in Virginia during the Administration of Earl Dunmore * 

/\ND there was yet war in the land of Columbia; for the armies of the kins; of Britain were encamped in the strong holds thereof. 
2. And there was a certain governor, called Dunmore; he had jurisdicton over a province of the South, called Virginia, which by interpretation signifieth the state of a virgin, and in honor to a queen of the island of Britain, whose name was Elizabeth and she was never betrothed to any. 
3. Now Dunmore, the governor, was given up to vain delusions and a reprobate mind; in that he manifested the fruits of wrath, envy and many other hurtful lusts; and all who do such things are in a state of reprobation. Moreover, he thought to rule the people with a rod of iron. 
4. And, notwithstanding, his hands were weak, for he had no soldiers under him; yet he was desirous to do something to please the king his master, and gain a little honor to himself; for verily the man was ambitious. 
5. And he entered into a league with some mariners who belonged to the navy of Britain, and be covenanted with them, that they should help to take away the black dust out of the store houses of the province. 
6. Then, when the people of the province had notice thereof, they armed themselves, and set a watch; and the governor waxed very wroth, inasmuch as the people were not willing to come under the yoke : and being exceedingly mad against them, he spake bitter words against them, yet the people cared for none of those things. 
7. And it came to pass, that the people of the provinces were told that the governor had sent letters to the king's servants in the island of Britain, concerning them, and that there were words in the letters that ought not to have been there; words of sophistry, tending to strife. And the people were grieved thereat. 
8- Now Dunmore the governor, walked not in the ways of Guy; but in the ways of Sanballat and Tobias the Jews enemy, who hindered Nehemiah from building up the walls of Jerusalem, and he made the breach wider between the king and the people of the provinces. 
9. Moreover he set up the banners of the king, his master, and stirred up the Ethiopians to rebel : now the Ethiopians were bond slaves to the people of the province. 
10. It was not for thee, Dunmore, it was not for thee, to break the bonds of the Ethiopians! was it ever known since the days of cur forefathers, that any man could bring a clean thing out of an unclean ? I trow not. 
11. Nevertheless, in the fullness of time when the people of the provinces are delivered from the oppressions of the king of the island of Britain, surely they will render to every man justice and right? 
12. For have not the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people declared, that freedom is the birthright of every man that cometh into the world, and that no prince, ruler nor governor, hath power to take it away ? 
13. They will never forget the rock from whence they were hewn, nor the hole of the pit from whence they were dug : the words of their mouths must not fall to the ground, for where the word of a prince is, there is power. 
14. Then will the goings forth of the rulers be, as a morning without clouds, their ways will be establishied in peace 1 if they break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free! Then will Columbia be the praise of the whole earth, and light and truth pervade the whole land 1 
15. And the rest of the acts of Dimmor, and all that he did, and how he burned the chief city of the province with fire; are they not written in the book of Ramsay the scribe ? 


CHAP. X. 

The embarrassments of the Kings's Troops in Boston — They evacuate the town and remove  to Halifax in Nova-Scotia, 

NOW the host, of the king of Britain, lay encamped in the town of Boston, in the  province of the East : and the army of the people of the provinces, environed the town  round about. 
2. And the host within the town were in a great strait; their bread was nigh spent, and  their fuel began to fail : and the ships of the island of Britain had not arrived to minister  to their necessities, and they were ready to perish, for it was winter. 
3. Howbeit, they pulled down the houses, in the town, that were made of wood, and  they kindled a fire therewith; then they gat heat: and at last, the ships arrived, and  there was great joy in the town. 
4. Now there were certain men in the host of Columbia, who were like the heath in the  desert, they knew not whence good came, these men spake against the chief captain, in asmuch as he did not force his way into the  town where the army of the men of Britain  were encamped. 
5. Nevertheless, he bore with these men, and answered them not again; he srode in the foot steps of Fabius who went out against the Carthagenians, and by his wisdom saved the Roman people from falling a prey to their enemies. 
6. His wants were many, but he kept the door of his lips, left peradventure, the enemies of Columbia should hear thereof : the cogitations of his heart were deep and ponderous.
7. Now the destroying engines in the army of Columbia, were idle, for the black dust began to fail : but it came to pass, that the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people, sent swift ships to the land of Ethiopia, and they bought the black dust of the merchants of Ethiopia. 
8. And George, chief captain of the armies of Columbia, consulted with the principal men of the host, and spake unto them, saying, Shall we go up against the town, where the army of the king of Britain is encamped, or shall we forbear ? 
9. Now, when they had consulted together, they spake unto the chief captain, and answered him after this manner; saying, We think it not expedient for the host of the people of the provinces to go against: the town; nevertheless, we think it advisable that the army occupy the high places that look towards the river. 
10. And it came to pass, that the chief captain ordered the men who had the charge of  tbe destroying engines, to set them to work and it was so, that the engines discharged their thunders upon the town. 
11. And when the engines were at work, lo! the people of the provinces gat possession of the high places, and strengthened themselves on the top thereof, and it became a place of defence. 
12. Now when the chief captain of the navy of the king of Britain, saw that the people of the provinces were encamped on the high places, he was astonished; and he sent to the chief captain of the host of Britain, and, said. If thou suffer the army of the people of the provinces to occupy the high places, the king's ships will be in danger. 
13. Then was the chief captain of the army of the king of Britain troubled; and he prepared himself to go out and fight with the host of the people of the provinces, and to drive them from the high places. And the people of the provinces, even the host of Columbia they also prepared for the battle, 
14. Bat it came to pass, that there was a great storm; and the rains descended, and the floods came and beat upon the host, and the men of Britain were discomfited. 
15. And the fear of George, captain of all the armies of Columbia, fell upon them, even upon the chief captain, and the army of Britain; and they fled into the ships of the king of Britain.
16. Now there were two sects spread over all the land of Columbia; the name of the one sect was whigs, and the name of the other sect was tories. 
1 7. And it came to pass, that the sect of the whigs, prevailed and grew stronger and stronger, and the fect of the tories grew weaker and weaker. 
18. Now the tories were counted as the off-scouring of all things; and they were fain to hide themselves in the clifts of the rocks, and in the thick forests of Columbia; and the soles of their feet found no rest, because of their enemies; nevertheless, there were some worthy men amongst them, who followed not after filthy lucre, nor that which maketh for strife. 
19. And when the army of the king of Britain was fleeing into the shiips, there were some of the sect of tories who fled with them, and they left much of their stuff behind in the town, and it became a prey to the host of the people of the provinces. 
20. And it was so, that when the army of the king of Britain had gotten into the ships, they set sail for the country, called in the Latin tongue, Nova Scotia, which being interpreted, is New Scotland. And the ships cast anchor in the river, before the chief town of the province, and the name of the town was Halifax, 
21. And it came to pass, that the chief captain of the host: of the people of the provinces, entered into the town13 that had been occupied by the army of the king of Britain, and the people came out to do him honor: and the name of George the chief captain, went out into all lands! 

CHAP. XL 

Fresh troops are sent by Congress to Canada —  a large force arrives from Great Britain.   The war in that province assumes a new face* 

NOW it came to pass, that the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people, being mindful of Benedict and the men who were with him, and fearing lest peradventure, they would fall into the hands of Guy, the king's governor; 
2. That they sent a band of men, to strengthen the host that was with Benedict; and sent large money to the soldiers: and the number of the men that were sent, was three thousand : and they were all valiant men- 
3. Now it happened, about that time, that a certain woman, who had a loathsome disease, 14and whose uncleanness was visible, inasmuch as her skin was fsotted by the mere force thereof. 
4. She went out of the town, and came into the camp of the people of the provinces, and it was so, that when any of the people came near unto the woman, then the disease fastened upon them, and they became unclean; and the number of them who had the leprosy of uncleanness, were more than two thousand men. 
,5. And when tidings came to the chief counsellor of Britain, that Guy, the king's governor, was shut up in the town, and that the people of the provinces had gotten possession of the strong holds, he was greatly moved, and remained astonished for the space of one hour. 
6. And after he had consulted with the wise men of the king, he advised that more soldiers should be sent into the province, to the king's governor, that they might drive out from the province, the host of Columbia, and recover the strong holds. 
7. Furthermore, the chief counsellor was minded to send a mighty army into the province, that they might be ready to unite with William, the chief captain, to invade the whole land of Columbia. 
8. Now, when the captains of the host: of Columbia, who were in the king's province, heard of these things, they consulted together, and the greater part of the men of war advised to depart thence. 
9. And it was so, that when Guy, the governor, knew of a certainty, that the army, of the people of the provinces, were about to depart, he gathered together an army, 
10. And the governor, and the host: of the kingdom of Britain, pursued after the army of the people of the provinces, and lo! when he came to the camp, he found no man there, save a few sick folk, for thy had made all haste to depart, and had left behind them some of the destroying engines and other implements for war. 
1 1. And it came to pass, that a mighty host, from the island of: Britain, came in the tall ships of the king, and they gat safe to land, and the governor was informed thereof; Now the number of the men was thirteen thousand. 
12. And when the army of the people of the provinces had notice of these things, they were discomfited : nevertheless, they were minded to take a strong hold that was nigh unto a place called the Three Rivers. 
13. And the chief captain divided the host: into four bands, and appointed a captain to each band, and the chief captain, whose name was Thompson was told that there were some soldiers of the king of Britain, encamped about twenty-four furlongs from that place, 
14. And it came to pass, as they were on their way to go against; the men, another messenger came, and told the chief captain, that it was not a true report that he had heard, for there were no soldiers encamped as had been said. 
15. Then the chief captain turned to go against the hold, but the night was far spent, for it was intended that they should get into the hold at unawares, while the soldiers were yet heavy with sleep. And it came to pass, that the chief captain went to and fro in the wilderness, and lost his way, and the sun arose. 
' 16. And when Thompson, the chief captain, could not be found, Arthur went out before the host, and became chief captain. And when he saw the army of Britain was coming out against him, he gave command that the host of the people of the provinces should depart thence, left peradventure, the servants of the king of Britain, should environ them round about.
17. And they fled by the same way that they had taken : and when the men of Britain saw the way that the people of the provinces were returning, they hastened to the river, to a certain point of land, called in the French tongae, Du lac. 
18. Now the people of the provinces had left their boats at the point, when they passed over the river, and the soldiers of the king were minded to get the boats from the people of the provinces, and prevent their return. 
19. But a certain captain, who had charge thereof, when he saw the men of Britain, he escaped with the boats down the river, to a place called in the vernacular tongue. Sorrel : now this place was occupied by the people of the provinces, and it was a place of defence.
20. And it came to pass, as Arthur was going before the host of Columbia, he gat a wound in his foot; and he was maimed so that he could not hold on his way, nor go out before the host as at other times. 
21. Now the men of the host, loved Arthur, and woould fain have borne him on their shoulders, but he forbade them, and encouraged them to hold on their way. 
2 2. And Arthur sat down under the thick branches of a tree; and there were certain other men with him, who were so weary, that they were fain to abide with him. 
23. And when they had rested themselves, and were refreshed, they arose up and departed thence, lest peradventure, they might fall into the hands of the men of Britain; and it was in the night when they departed from that place. 
24. Then they journeyed onwards : howbeit, they were faint, for they had taken no food for two days and two nights. And on the morning of the third day, some of the inhabitants ministered to their necessities : and they held on their way until they came to the strong hold, where the host of the people of the provinces had gotten before them, and they rejoiced together. 
25. And the chief captain, Thomson, who had lost his way in the wilderness, and also a few men who had followed after him, were taken captives at a certain house in the province, to which they had fled for refuge. 

CHAP, XII. 

The Canadians complain of the conduct of the army — The naval engagement on Lake Champlain, 

And the army that followed after Guy, was strengthened by the soldiers who came from the island of Britain, and it became a mighty host; and they made all speed to follow after the people of the provinces. 
2.. And Guy divided the host into three bands; for he purposed in his heart to environ the army of Columbia round about; but John, having notice thereof, decamped from that place, and escaped to the strong hold that Ethan and Benedict had taken. 
3. And it came to pass, that as the host of the people of the provinces were on their way to the hold, the inhabitants of the land, even the Canadians, came out to expostulate with the people, and said unto them. 
4. Hear now, ye sons of Columbia, and attend to the words of our mouths! Suffer us a little, that we may speak; that we may make known to you the bitterness of our souls. 
5. What thing is this now that ye are doing! will ye leave us a prey to our enemies ? For lo! when you were hungry, we fed you; and when you were thirsty, we gave you drink! and shall we not be judged for these things by Guy ? will not he count us as aliens, and as enemies to the king of Britain ? 
6. So we shall be taken in an evil net, and our flocks and our herds will become a prey, and our wives and our little ones will be cut off from the fruits of the earth! and we shall have none inheritance amongst our brethren. 
7. And when the captains of the host of Columbia, heard these things, they were troubled for the inhabitants of the land. 
8. But they spake and said unto them, it IS not for man to know the hidden things of futurity, nor for the sons of men to tell what will come to pass! if it had been so, then this thing would not have happened unto us, 
9. But is it not known unto you, that Guy is pursuing after us with a mighty host from the island of Britain, and that we are in jeopardy every hour ? nevertheless, if you will cast in your lots with us, and go with us to our own borders, then ye shall eat the good of the land, and verily ye shall be free. 
10. Then the Inhabitants of the land, even the Canadians, furthermore answered, and said, It seemeth not good unto us to harken unto you in this matter; for our wives and our children are too tender to bear the journey : and moreover, is this not the land of our nativity, and do we not dwell amongst: our own people ? nay verily, but we will stay here, and lo! if we perish, we perish! 
11. And the captains of the host of Columbia, seeing that they could not prevail, they ceased importuning the people, and journeyed on their way, and Guy, and the host of the men of Britain, followed hard after them; and they were at their wits end, Nevertheless, they escaped to the hold called Crown-Point, where they sojourned for a time, 
12. Now Jobn, was chief captain of the host: of the people of the provinces, in that quarter; and as Guy was pursuing after the host, it came to pass, that at any time, when the soldiers of the king of Britain, came nigh unto John, he turned himself about and fought with them, and stayed them from breaking in upon the host; and the governor was vexed, inasmuch as he had purposed in his heart to make them all captives. 
13. And John called a council of his captains and the chief men in the host, and they communed together, and the greater part advised to depart thence to the strong hold,* that Ethan and Benedict had taken, 
14. Now it sorely grieved the people of the provinces, that the host of Columbia failed to establish themselves in the province, inasmuch, as they feared that the army of the king of Britain would annoy the other provinces from thence. 
15. And it came to pass, that the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people, sent Horatio, a chief captain, and twelve thousand men of the people of the provinces followed after him; and they journeyed towards the strong bold, to strengthen their brethren. 
16. Now the hold was nigh unto a great lake,15and they built ships on the borders thereof: and when they were afloat on the waters, they put valiant men into the ships, and the destroying engines were put therein, and Benedict was made chief captain thereof, 
17. And Benedict was minded to take the ships to a certain rock that was on the borders of the lake : and he spread his sails to the wind, and the ships moved upon the face of the waters : and the men of war who were with him, were impatient for the battle. 
18. Now, when Guy was told that the people of the provinces had built ships, and armed them with the destroying engines. He, also in like manner, armed some of the ships of the king of Britain. And a man whose surname was Pringle, was made chief captain. 
19. And when all things were in readiness, they set sail; and went out to look for Benedict. Now the ships of the king of Britain were stronger than the ships that were with Benedict; and moreover, the number of them was greater, 
20. And it came to pass, when the ships of the king of Britain were drawing nigh unto the navy of Benedict, that the men of war shouted, and the shouting of the warriors was heard afar off. 
21. And Benedict, the chief captain of the navy of Columbia, and Pringle, the chief captain of the ships of the king of Britain, thirsted for the battle, and the roaring of the destroying engines was heard, and the battle lasted until the time of the offering the evening sacrifice : and two of the ships that were with Benedict, fell a prey unto the men of Britain. 
22. And it came to pass, while it was yet night, that Benedict escaped with the remnant of the ships : and when the sun arose, the chief captain of the ships of the king of Britain, thought to have ended the warfare with Benedict; and lo! he looked, and behold the ships were departed from thence. 
23. Then the mariners hoisted up the anchors of the ships, and loosened the sails to the wind, and made all speed to pursue after Benedict and the men who were with him in the ships. 
24. And when the wind sprang up, the ships moved swiftly upon the face of the waters, and overtook Benedict in the ships: Nevertheless, some of those who were the foremost:, escaped to the hold that Ethan and Benedict had taken. 
25. But Benedict seeing that the remnant of the ships could not escape from falling to the men of Britain, he cast out fear, and prepared to fight with Pringle the captain of the ships, if peradventure he could by any means get his men out of the ships to land. 
26. And the battle waxed hot, and continued for the space of two hours, and Benedict ran the ships to the land, and the ships were as walls and bulwarks against the balls of the destroying engines, and the men gat safe to land. 
27. And Benedict fearing, left the sbips should fall into the hands of the servants of the king of Britain, he burned them with fire. 
28. Now the banner of the great Sanhedrim was in the ship that Benedict was in; and he cast in his mind that he should get a blot if the banner should fall into the hands of the enemy, therefore he tarried in the ship until the fire was kindled; and Benedict gat great honor amongst the armed men, and his fame was spread afar off. 
29. Thus ended the battle between the two captains; and the winter was nigh at hand, and the soldiers of the king of Britain were fain to depart into their winter habitations. 

CHAP. XIII. 

The Parliament of Great Britain hire soldiers from Germany , for the purpose of subjugating the Colonies — Unsuccessful expedition against South Carolina — Commodore Parker wounded. 

N O W the chief counsellor of Britain was still wroth with the people of the provinces, and he counselled the king of Britain to hire soldiers of the German princes, whose dominions were on the borders of the river, that ancient river, the river Rhine. 
2. And the king hearkened to the words of the chief counsellor notwithstanding, there were certain chief men in the council who spake against the thing, yet they could not prevail, and the wisdom cf their words was, set at naught, and their counsel was as water spilt upon a rock, 
3. And the king sent to the princes, and covenanted with them for sixteen thousand men, to strengthen the host that was warring with the people of the provinces, In the land of Columbia. 
4. They were a people of a strange language, and went against the people of the provinces in the simplicity of their hearts, for their leaders caused them to err, and spread a net for their feet. 
5. And moreover, the great council of the kingdom made a decree, That at any time, when the mariners of the ships of Columbia should be taken captives by the servants of the king, that they should be put into the kings' ships, and be made to fight against their brethren, the people of the provinces; and the ships of Columbia should be for a spoil to the servants of the king. 
6. And furthermore, it was decreed in the council, That the people of the provinces should be treated as enemies, and aliens to the kingdom of Britain. 
7. Now it came to pass, about this time, that two captains of Britain went out against a strong hold that was in a province of the South; and the name of the first was Peter and the name of the other captain was Henry, now Peter was a sea-captain, and he had a navy of ships; and Henry was a chief captain of the host of the men of Britain. 
8. And the name of the captain of the men of war, that were in the strong hold was Moultrie; he was a valiant man, and the men who were in the hold with the captain, were all valiant men. 
9. And it came to pass, that when the two captains, Peter and Henry, came against the hold; it was agreed between them, that Henry should take the soldiers that were under him, and get to a certain island nigh unto the hold, that he might get into the hold on the other side. 
10. And the destroying engines began to utter their thunders, and the battle waxed hot, and the shouting of the warriors was heard from afar, and there was a terrible clashing of arms! 
11. And Henry, when he saw that there were valiant men in the hold, he forbore to go forth : and the battle continued for the space of ten hours, and the slain and wounded in the ships were more than two hundred men. And it cams to pass that a ball from the destroying engines smote Peter on the hinder parts, and maimed him. 
1 2. And the slain and wounded in the hold, were one score and twelve persons.  And the captain of the men of war who were in the hold, gat great honor, and the fortress was called by his name, to commemorate his valiant acts. 
13. And the mariners that were in the ships were commanded by Peter, while it was yet night, to slip the cables, and escape down the river; for the ships were much damaged by the destroying engines. 
14. And when Henry had put his soldiers into the ships, they sailed from thence, and escaped to the haven where the navy of the king of Britain was anchored. 

CHAP. XIV. 

Sir William Howe leaves Halifax , and is soon followed by his brother, admiral lord Howe, with a land force — hidcpendence is declared,, The battle on Leng-IfJand.

AND it came to pass, about this time, that William, the chief captain of all the armies of the king of Britain, put his men into the ships and departed from the country of Nova-Scotia, for he was weary with tarrying at that place; 
2. And he came to a certain haven, called In the vernacular tongue Sandy Hook. And it came to pass, that his brother (who was a chief captain in the navy of the king of Britain) followed after him with the ships of the king : now the soldiers that were hired of the German princes were in the ships, and a vast store of all the implements for war. 
3. And they cast anchor nigh unto a certain island, and the inhabitants thereof rejoiced with seeming great joy : and there was about two hundred men on the island, who gave up their names to fight under the banners of the king of Britain. 
4. And the governor of that province and certain men with him, went in an armed ship to meet William, the chief captain, and they were comforted with each other;  " For as iron sharpeneth iron, so doth the countenance of a man his friend.
5. And when the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim of the people, knew of a certainty that the king of Britain had hired strangers to come against the people of the provinces, and were told what had been done against them in the great council of the kingdom; 
6. Then they consulted together concerning all things that appertained to the provinces, and they made a decree, and it was sealed with the signets of the princes of the provinces. 
7. And the writing of the decree was spread abroad into all lands; and when the host of Columbia heard thereof, they shouted with a great shout. 
8. And it was written therein, That the people of the provinces should no more serve the king of Britain; but they should be a peculiar people unto themselves, and that their law-givers should be from amongst their own people. And the bonds betwixt the king and the people were broken, so the people of the. provinces revolted that day, and served the king of Britain no more, 
9. Now the number of the soldiers of the king of Britain, who were warring with the people of the provinces, were fifty and five thousand fighting men, prepared with all the instruments for war. 
10. And it came to pass, that the host of the king of Britain landed on a certain neck of land, called Long-island, after the similitude of the form thereof. Now a captain of the people of the provinces whose name was John., was encamped en the island, and a band of men were with him and the name of the place were they were encamped was called Flat-Bush, and it was a place of defence, 
11. Moreover, the people of the provinces occupied the high places, and the army of the king of Britain fought to gain protection thereof, and they were divided into three companies. 
12. And while it was yet night, the host of the king of Britain went forth; and Henry a chief captain of the men of Britain was minded to get round the mountain where the people of the provinces were encamped, and come upon them unawares. 
13. And as they were on their way, lo! some of the chief men of the army of Columbia were taken captive; and at the dawning of the day, Henry gat up to the high place, and the people fled before the army of the men of Britain. 
14. And a certain captain who was a lord and who fought under the banners of the great Sanhedrim, came up to the help of the people, and fifteen hundred men followed after him. 
15. Now there was a hill about sixteen furlongs from the main camp of the people of the provinces; and this lord and the fifteen hundred men that were with him, gat upon the hill; and the men of Britain were encamped opposite to the hill. 
16. And on the morning of the same day, the Hessians, who were the soldiers that the king of Britain had hired of the German princes; and also the soldiers of the king of Britain, moved towards the host of the people of the provinces and shouted for the battle: and the name of the captain over the Hessians was De Heister; and Grant was captain over the men of Britain. 
17. And the battle waxed hot, and the men behaved themselves valiantly; but it came to pass, that Henry came with an army, and the people of the provinces were taken in an evil net; for the armies of the king environed them round about, and they were chased to and fro as a partridge upon the mountains. 
18. Howbeit they fought with the men of Britain for the space of six hours, and the battle was before and behind, and it was a sore conflict; and the number of the slain and the wounded, and those who were taken captive, exceeded one thousand men: and the residue made their escape. 
19. And the slain of the men of Britain, were about four hundred and fifty persons. 
20. Now George, the chief captain of all the armies of Columbia, while the people of the provinces were warring with the host of Britain, passed over to the island, and the residue of the host followed after him. 
21. And after he had gathered the host: together, he put his army in array and desired the battle, for he was encamped in a strong place; but William, the chief captain of the host of Britain, knowing that George was a valiant man, and prudent in all matters relating to the war, he declined to go forth. 
22. Nevertheless, he was minded to cast up a bank for a place of defence, and to annoy the people of the provinces who were occupied in the strong hold. 
23. And George perceiving that the chief captain of the host of Britain behaved himself wisely; then he called a council of his chief men, and when they had consulted together, the greater part of the council advised the army of the people of the provinces should depart from off the island. 
24. And when it was night, the host moved towards the river, and the soldiers gat into the boats that were prepared to carry them over the water. Now while the people were moving towards the river, the soldiers cast in in their minds what this should mean, and thought they were going against the host of Britain. For the chief captains had kept the door of their lips concerning this thing, led peradventure the enemy should hear thereof and pursue after them. 
25. And it came to pass, that while the people of the provinces were waiting to be ferried over the river, lo! the North East wind sprang up, so that the boats could not pass : 
26. But about the eleventh hour of the night the wind ceased, and there was a calm; and afterward the South wind arose, and then the people passed over, and gat safe to the other side. 
27. Howbeit, the dawning of the day appeared before all the people had passed over , and about the sixth hour, there was a thick mist over the whole island, that hid the people of the provinces from their enemies. And there was a great deliverance wrought that day. 
28. And Thomas a chief captain, and one of the princes of the provinces, was in the rear guard of the host when they passed the river; and he brought the men who were with him safe to land, 
29. And when the people of the provinces had all gotten safe over to the other fide, the mist: cleared away. And the host of Britain were astonished out of measure, when they saw that the people of the provinces were fled! 


CHAP. XV. 

The commissioners declare their power for settling the disputes subsisting between Great Britain and the Colonies.  

NOW when the host of the people of the provinces had gotten safe over the river, the chief captain of the navy of the king of Britain, deputed John* whom he had taken captive on the island, to go with a message to the great Sanhedrim. 
2. And the words that he put in his mouth, were on this wise : " That, inasmuch, as the king of Britain, in his princely wisdom, had appointed him and his brother his deputies, to communicate his royal will and pleasure, concerning the people of the provinces. 
3. "It therefore, behoveth the Sanhedrim, to send some of their wise men to consult about the affairs of the provinces, before the sword of his wrath is unsheathed.' 
4. Then John took his way to the Sandedrim, and rehcarsed all those words in the ears of the princes of the provinces. 
5. And after three days, the great Sanhedrim sent an answer by John unto the king's deputy; signifying unto him, that they would do as he desired. 
6. And at a convenient time, they sent three of the princes of the provinces : namely, Benjamin, John and Edward;* who went forth to commune with the king's deputy; and they went over to a certain island, and the deputy communed with them there. 
7. Now the princes of the provinces, were swift to hear, and flow to speak; and when any words fell from the mouth of the chief captain, they treasured them up in their minds, that they might make a true report thereof, to the great Sanhediim. 
8; And it came to pass, that when the chief captain, even the king's deputy had done speaking; the princes of the provinces departed, and returned to their own place; and reported all the words of the king's deputy, in the ears of all the people. 
9. And the deputies of the great Sanhedrim moreover spake, and said, We think it not expedient at this time, to hearken to the voice of the king's deputy; inasmuch, as he hath no power nor authority to do those things which the people of the provinces require. 
10. For verily, he spake words which were not convenient to be heard; and the interpretation thereof is on this wise : 
11. That if the people of the provinces, will obey the king's commandments in all things, then they shall be received into his royal favor; and the sceptre of his mercy shall be extended towards them : their transgressions shall be wiped from his remembrance forever and the iniquity of their rebellion {shall not rise up against them! 
12. Now, although the princes of the provinces expected nothing from the communication with the king's deputy; nevertheless, for the sake of some weak brethren, they consented thereto.  “ Then I said in my heart. Surely they that expect nothing, shall never be disappointed." 
1 3. And the war raged with great violence in the land of Columbia; and many houses in the borders thereof were left desolate, great and fair, without an inhabitant; the fields were unoccupied, and the flocks and the herds were cut off from their pasture! 
14. The widows and the fatherless were multiplied! and the sword devoured the young men! it was a day of deep distress! fear and dismay covered the faces of the husbandmen and the joy of harvest was turned into mourning! 
15. Young children asked for bread, and no man break it unto them — they said to their mothers, When will our father return— when shall we see the face of our father ? — They looked through the lattice — they saw not him whom their souls desired! 
16. Alas! he will never return! — the eye that hath seen him shall see him no more!— he is gone down to the stones of the pit — he fell by the hand of the enemy — the sword of the warrior pierced him through — the sorrows of death encompassed him round about! 
1 7. Tell it not in Lud! publish it not in the slreets thereof, lest the daughters of Albion rejoice! lest the daughters of Britain triumph! 
1 8. Let not thy soul be cast down for these things, O man! To die is the common lot of humanity, the great birth-right of the sons of Adam! 
19. Therefore, if while thou art struggling through the ocean of this world, rough storms and contrary blasts alarm thy fears, yet remember the voyage is short, and the danger will soon be over! 
20. And, although the clouds may gather blackness, and thou mayest be envelloped in the thick mists of confusion; yet be assured, that if thy feet keep in the high way of virtue, brighter scenes will yet cheer thy sight, and more serene prospects will delight, and animate thy soul. 
21. And is it not written in the book of Solomon, nearly on this wise ? That the path of the just man, like the luminous orb which enlighteneth our hemisphere, shines with increasng refulgency, splendor and brightness, until it arrive to the meridian altitude of a glorious perfect day! 

C H A P. XVI

The American officers conclude to evacuate New York—'The battle at the White, Plains—Fort Washington taken, 

NOW the host encamped in the chief city of the province; and the chief men of the host: consuted together; and the council decreed, That if peradventure the army of the king of Britain, should come against the city, that the host of the people of the provinces should depart thence, to another place. 
2. Nevertheless, they strengthened themselves in the town; and cast up places of defence, that they might annoy the army of the king of Britain from thence. 
3. Now, the city was built upon an island, and twelve thousand men encamped on the North of the island, and four thousand remained in the city, and the residue of the host occupied the intermediate space. 
4. And William, chief captain of the host of Britain, having gotten all things in readiness, he prepared to take the city : and lo! when he had gotten about three score men to land, some of the people of the provinces who were encamped behind a bank that they had cast up, were afraid, and fled before the tmen of Britain. 
5. And George, the chief captain, was sorely grieved when he saw that the people fled before their enemies; inasmuch, as the men of Britain would triumph : and he said within himself, Lo! now we shall be a reproach and a bye word amongst: all nations! 
5. But it came to pass, on the next day, that the men who had fled before the men of Britain, being smitten in their own minds with shame, came and offered themselves to go forth against the army of Britain. 
7; And it came to pass, that some of the army of Britain came out against the men who had offered themselves, and the captain of the men of Britain who came out, was Leslie; and the names of the captains of the people who had offered themselves, were Knowlton and Leitch 
8. And the men behaved themselves valiantly, and drove the enemy from the field of battle : notwithftanding, Knowlton, the captain, was slain, and the other captain was wounded; and the men gat great honor, and their transgressions were blotted out forever, from the remembrance of the chief captain. 
9. Now when the army of Britain had gotten into the city, and had taken possession thereof; it came to pass, after a few days, that a fire was kindled in the city, which burned with great violence : and the number of the houses that were consumed by the fire, was about one thousand. 
10. And it was so, that after the host of the people of the provinces had departed out of the city; they journeyed forwards, and pitched their camp in the North end of the island. 
1 1. Then William though: to encompass the host of the people of the provinces round about; and he sent a large company, who took their way through a certain place called Hell-Gate; and they landed on Frog's-Neck. 
12. And it came to pass, that a chief captain who had revolted from the king of Britain, returned from the province of the South, after he had been warring with Peter and Henry, and the surname of the captain was Lee; he was a mighty man of valor, and well skilled in war. 
13. Now the chief men of the host of the people of the provinces communed together; and the greater part of the council was for abiding on the island, but the captain who had revolted from the king of Britain, thought it not prudent to abide there. 
14. He had the tongue of the learned, and he disputed with the captains of the host, and the words that he spake, were words of wisdom that could not be gainsayed; and the chief men hearkened to the words of his mouth. 
15. Now there was a strong hold on the island that was occupied by the people of the provinces; and it was called after the name of the chief captain; and Nathaniel, advised that it should be kept for a place of defence; but the other captain; was not consenting thereto. 
16. And it came to pass after six days, that the host of Britain departed from Frogs-Neck, and as they were journeying on their way, many of them were slain by the people of the provinces, who shiot at them from behind a wall. 
17. And the residue of the army of the king of Britain also moved forwards, about sixteen furlongs to the North of a certain place, called New-Rochdale, and took the highway towards the White-Plains. 
18. Then George, the chief captain of the host of the people of the provinces, put the army into array, and the host of Columbia extended from a certain place called in the vernacular tongue East-Chester, nigh unto the White Plains. 
19. And it came to pass, that some of the host of the king of Britain, and some of the people of the provinces, joined battle, and many of the people fell down slain that day : and it was so, that while the men of war were fighting, the people of the provinces moved their stores, and all their stuff from off the field of battle. 
20. And the chief captain of the people of the provinces, being well skilled in all matters relating to war; placed the host of Columbia in such a manner, as shewed that he was worthy of being chief Captain, and he desired the battle; but William, captain of the host of Britain delayed to go forth, and turned his back upon the people of the provinces. 
21. Then the army of the people of the provinces passed over the river that cometh out of the North country; and they came into the province of Jersey, nigh unto a strong hold, called after the name of the captain,! who had revolted from the king of Britain. 
22. Now after the host of the people of the provinces had left the island, on which the chief city of the province was built; William, the chief captain of the armies of Britain, went against the strong hold, that was on the island : now there were three thousand fighting men in the hold; and the name of the chief captain in the hold was Magaw. 
23, And the army of the king of Britain came against the hold, in four companies, the first company came to the North of the hold, and they were soldiers who were hired of the German princes, and their chief captain was named Kniphausen , and another company came up against the East side thereof, and the name of the captain was Mathews, and he was helped by a certain Lord16 of the realm of Britain. 
24. And the third company had a captain whose name was Sterling; and Piercy, who was also a lord of Britain was captain of the fourth company. Now as the first company was going against the hold, some of the people of the province were in a thick forest, and as the soldiers were on their way to the hold, they were shot at by the people who were in the forest, and they were sore galled thereby. 
25. Notwithstanding the army of the king of Britain pressed upon the garrison on every side, and the people that were in the hold were hard beset} and after communing together for some time the hold was given up to the servants of the king of Britain. And the men of the garrison were all made captives 
26. And the number of the captives was two thousand and seven hundred; and the slain and wounded of the men of Britain were about twelve hundred persons. 

CHAP. XVII. 

Fort Lee evacuated by the Americans — The Militia desert in great numbers—-General Washington retreats through the Jerseys. 

AND it came to pass, that after the host of Britain had taken the strong hold with the garrison thereof, they were like men refreshed with new wine. 
2, And a Lord, of the kingdom of Britain who was a chief captain in the host, he was also governor of the tower of Lud, and had vast possessions in the land of Britain; he went forth against another strong hold that was in the border of the province of Jersey 
3. Now the men who were in the hold, when they were told, that the governor of the tower of Lud was coming against them, they presently departed, and moved to another place. And they left all the destroying engines that were therein, for a spoil to the host of Britain, for verily they were in haste to be gone. 
4. Now there were many in the host of Columbia, who were not used to the fatigues of war, they said within themselves, Lo! now we shall one day fall by the hands of the men of Britain. 
5. And seeing that times and seasons are not in our power, it is therefore better for us to escape, for we know not what tomorrow may bring forth. 
6. They went away in companies; they were not obedient to the voice of the chief captain: the poison of their example spread itself through the host, and the fear of the men of Britain prevailed in the hearts of many, who had boasted of what great things they would do in the hour of trial! 
7. While they were at home in their cottages, they had heard of the same of the warrior; it was their mediation by day when their hands were in their labor, and in the night season when deep sleep falleth upon man, the visions of their heads upon their beds, were of camps and instruments of war! 
8. The phantom of imagination presented to their view, whole armies overthrown by their single arm! The pleasing viiion followed them to the field; it haunted them in their occupations; they cast away with indignation, the hoe and the mattock, and grabbed the arms of the warrior! 
9. But when the blast of war assailed their ears, when they saw the crimson fluid spouting from the wounded warrior, their souls sickened at the sight! — they sighed in fecret for the occupation of the shepherd, and the bleating of the sheep was as music in their ears 
10. And it came to pass, that the residue of the host fled to New- York, in the province of Jersey, and the chief captain communed with Joseph there. 
11. And he said unto him, If we go to the back parts of Pennsylvania, will the inhabitants help us in that province ? 
12. Now this was a province that was given by one of the kings of the island of Britain, unto a man whose sur-name was Penn, and it was called Pennsylvania, which being interpreted, is Penn's woody country. 
13. He was a worthy man and an excellent law-giver; moreover he was a prossessor of that light which John spake of in the book of the Gospel, unto which if a man take heed as unto a sure guide, it will lead him out of all error into all truth, and finally conduct him to the seats of immortal life! where new sources of joy will be opened without end! 
14. And Joseph answered the chief captain and said, Know thou of a truth that if the lower parts of the province submit to the king of Britain, then the back parts thereof will do so in like manner. 
15. Then George, the chief captain, furthermore spake and said; We will journey onwards to the province of Virginia, to the county of Augusta; and lo! if we are driven from thence, we will pass over the mountains of Alleghany. 

CHAP. XVIIL 

General Howe sends forth a Proclamation, many take the benefit thereof, and make their peace. 

NOW when the captain of the host of Britain knew of a certainty, that the people of the provinces were scattered away from George, the chief captain, he was lifted up in his mind and said within himself, 
2. Lo! now these people will assuredly return back again, and serve the king of Britain; our warfare is nearly accomplished; the hands of the mighty hang down; fear hath overtaken the warriors; they will rise no more; they are as the reed that groweth by the side of the rivers, which boweth down to the earth at every blast! 
3. Boast not O mighty man! The people whom thou scornest are afflicted, but not forfaken; they will return in an hour when thou lookest not for them; they will come upon thee unawares, and lay thy glory in the dust. 
4. And it came to pass, that the chief captain and his brother, who were the king's deputies, sent letters into every province, warning the people to return, and serve the king of Britain as in days past, 
5. Moreover it was written in the letters, That if within three score days, any of the people presented themselves before the chief captain of the host, or the king's governors, and signed a certain writing, then they would do well, and should partake of the king's mercy, and their offences should be remem- bered to them no more. 
6. And the great Sanhedrim were commanded to assemble no more together; but to return and make their peace while the door of mercy was yet open. 
7. And there were many who harkened to the words that were written in the letters of the king's deputies, and they partook of the offered mercy, and signed their names to the written paper. 
8. Now many of those who signed their names to the paper, had appeared very zealous againstl the king of Britain, and had stirred up the people to oppose the decree of the king; and moreover they vilified the name of the chief counsellor of the kingdom. 
9. They were unstable in all their ways : their zeal was as the dew of the morning, which soon passeth away! 
10. Now the sect of the tories were better than these men, for verily they held fast their integrity, and were of one mind and not easily turned. 
11. Thus did many of the people forsake the chief captain, who had toiled for their case, who had left a fair inheritance on Mount Vernon, and needed not that any man should minister to his necessities. 
12. In the day of prosperity they were lifted up above measure, and were amongst: those, who were foremost to oppose the servants of the king of Britain; 
13. But when the evil day came to try the foundations of men, lo! their hearts failed them! and like the grass upon the house top, they soon withered away! 
14. Nevcrtheless there were some who maintained their integrity, and were as the strong oaks in the forests of Columbia, that feareth not the windy storm and tempest. 
15. They followed after the chief captain: the words of his mouth were as a law in their hearts; and the hour of adversity endeared them to each other. 

CHAP. XIX. 

The American army retreat over the Delaware", General Lee captured — The Hessians taken at Trenton — The battle of Sanpink Bridge. 

AND it was so, that as George, the chief captain, was passing through the province of Jersey, that the host of the king of Britain followed hard after him. 
2, Now there was a river, which divided the province of Pennsylvania; it was a mighty stream, and extended from beyond the Blue mountains of Columbia, even to the Atlantic Sea, 
3 It was a fair haven for the ships of the merchants, who did business on great waters, they sent the wares of Columbia to the North, and to the South, to the East, and to the West, and trafficked with the merchants afar off. 
4. And George, the chief captain, and the men who followed after him, passed over the river and they were chafed in their minds, as a bear robbed of her young, 
5. Now the men of Britain rejoiced with exceeding great joy, inasmuch as they thought the army of the people of the provinces would come against them no more. 
6. And it came to pass about this time, that Lee, the captain, who had revolted from the king of Britain, was taken captive by some of the soldiers of the king of Britain. 
7. And when the people of the provinces heard thereof, they were discomfited, for he was a mighty man of valor, and feared not, neither regarded he the face of any man; and the people thought he secretly inclined to go back to the king his master. 
8. Now the host of Britain occupied the towns in the province of Jersey, and they walked to and fro therein, and there were none to make them afraid. 
9. And certain sons of Belial, in the host: of Britain, went forth from the camp to the cottages of the husbandmen : and they saw the daughters of the land, that they were fair, and withal of a beautiful countenance, 
10. They were not restrained by the law of the chief captain, they did those things which are not seemly to be mentioned, nor shall the pen of the scrlbe record their cruel acts, left the tears of the violated virgin should be multiplied when she remembers the day of her humiliation! 
11. Now in this time of deep disttress, when the host: of the king of Britain appeared ready to overrun the whole land, the great Sanhedrim of the people expostulated with their brethren. 
12. And Thomas, one of the princes of the provinces, and a citizen of no mean city,! strengthened the feeble knees of the warriors; he spake to them in the language of love, and the moving of his lips raised their spirits. 
13. Now Thomas was beloved of the people; the words of his mouth were as showers of rain on the parched ground in the midst of summer; they were refreshed; they were animated; they shouted for the battle. 
14. And there was a town in the province of Jersey, on the borders of the river, and it was occupied by the Hessians who were hired of the German princes and the river was between them and the people of the provinces, 
15. And the w,aters of the river were frozen, and there was abundance of ice, and George , the chief captain of the army of Columbia, cast in his mind, how he should circumvent the men of Britain, and by what device he should bring down the towering hopes of the enemy. 
1 6. And it was so, that after he had counselled with the chief men who were about him, he divided the army of Columbia into two bands, and they passed over the river while it was yet night. 
17. And the first company was commanded by John and Nathaniel commanded the other company; and the two captains with their companies came against the town where the Hessians were encamped : and after they had made an assault, the Hessians fled. Nevertheless nine hundred were taken captives, and the residue made their escape. 
18. And George, the chief captain, entered into the town, and took possession thereof; and there was great joy throughout all the land of Columbia; because the army of the aliens were overthrown and made captives, and the joy of the people exceeded the joy of harvest. 
19. And it came to pass, after these things, that the people of the province of Jersey, and from the other provinces round about, flocked to the banners of the great Sanhedrim, even the wild pigeons of Columbia flocked to the stubble of the husbandman. 
20. Now the army of Britain encamped on one side of the town, and the host of the people of the provinces encamped on the other side thereof; and there was a brook of  water between the two armies, 
21. And there was a high place cast up over the brook for way faring men, who passed that way : it was built up with hewn stone, and the inhabitants of the land called it a bridge, the name thereof was Sanpink. 
22. And the people of the provinces planted some of the destroying engines on the bank of the brook, and the soldiers of Britain went forth to drive them from thence. 
23J But it came to pass that the destroying engines gaped upon them with their mouths, and vomited out their thunders; and the soldiers of Britain were smitten to the earth, so that they could no more rise; and the residue made their escape; inasmuch as they could not perform their enterprise. 

CHAP. XX. 

The Expedition at Princeton----The Americans recover great part of the Jerseys. 

AN D the two armies encamped nigh unto each other, and the brook was between them. And the host of the men of Britain, when they had kindled their fires, set a watch, and betook themselves to rest.
2. But George, chief captain of the host of the people of the provinces, suffered not his eyes to sleep; and he gathered the captains of the host together; 
3. And he communed with them on this wise, and said, Know ye not that the rear guard of the host of Britain lieth encamped at Princeton ? let us therefore depart while it is yet night, that we come upon them while their eyes are yet heavy with sleep. 
4. Furthermore, he spake and said, Let every man of the host be ready with bis weapons of war in his hand; and let the destlroying engines go out of the camp, and let certain men stay behind to kindle the fires, that the men of Britain may be deceived thereby. 
5. And it was so, that when all things were ready, the host of Columbia moved forwards; and the men who were left behind, kindled up the fires in the front of the camp; and the watchmen in the host of Britain, verily thought that the people of the provinces were taking their rest in sleep. 
6. Now as the host of the people of the provinces drew nigh unto the town, they were espied by some of the soldiers of the king of Britain, who were journeying towards their brethren that were encamped at the bridge of Sanpink. 
7. And when they perceived that the people of the provinces were journeying forwards, they let in a jealousy that evil was intended against their brethren in the town: therefore they sent a messenger with tidings thereof. 
8. Now it was about the dawning of the day, when George, the chief captain, drew nigh unto the town; and when the soldiers who were the servants of the king of Britain, saw the people of the provinces, they rushed out of the town to meet the armed men; 
9. And the centre of the host of Columbia could not withstand the impetuosity of the soldiers of Britain, but gave way and were confused. 
10. And when the chief captain saw the men giving place to the soldiers of Britain, he hastened forwards, and placed himself between the host of the people of the provinces, and the soldiers of the king of Britain. 
11. And George, the chief captain, encouraged the men to fight valiantly that day, for their country, their wives and their children : then the people turned about, and the men of Britain were fain to flee from before the people of the provinces. 
12. And many of the people of the province of Jersey were in the battle, and behaved themselves valiantly : and George, the chief captain, was in great jeopardy;  nevertheless, he received no harm. 
13. And the men of Britain fled to a certain building, where children were taught after the perfect manner of the law of their fathers : moreover they were taught to speak in foreign tongues! and to cut curious figures on paper! and there were also some stargazers amongst them! Now the building was called a college. 
14. And the balls of the destroying engines smote against: the walls thereof; and the fear of George, the chief captain, fell upon the men of Britain, and they came forth, and delivered themselves up to be captives to the people of the provinces. 
15. Now the slain of the men of Britain were about three score persons; and three hundred men were taken captive. 
16. And there fell of the people of the provinces, three captains and some others. Moreover a chief captain whose name was Mercer, was slain. 
17. He was a worthy man, and came from the land of Calidonia, to sojourn with the people of the provinces; and he fought under the banners of the great Sanhedrim. 
18. Now the army of Britain, on the morning of the same day, prepared to assault the camp of the people of the provinces, for they wist not that the people were departed. 
19. And lo! when they drew nigh unto the camp, there was no man there! and they were amazed beyond measure! Now they had heard the noise of the destroying engines; and they said, It thundered j notwithstanding it was winter. 
20. And while they were musing concerning these things, beheld a messenger came running along the highway of the country, and he had tidings in his mouth, 
21. And he reported all the things which George, the chief captain, had done; and how that the servants of the king were gone into captivity , and some were slain in the battle! 
22. Now when the host of the king of Britain, heard these things, the people were sore amazed, and they gaped on the messenger with their mouths, for they wist not what they did, for they were astonished out of measure! 

CHAP. XXL 

The British army retreat to Brunswick — Sklrmishes with small parties, 

AND it came to pass, that the host of the king of Britain, fled to a certain town in the province of Jersey, which was nigh unto the seacoast, and they cared not to go forth far into the country, lest the people of the provinces should get between them and the ships of the king of Britain. 
2. Nevertheless, a certain captain, with his fifty went out of the camp, and were made captives by the people of the provinces. They came from the river Rhine, and were called Waldickers. 
3. Now, as some of the men of Britain were foraging in the province of Jersey, a certain captain of the people of the provinces came upon them, and the men of Britain fled : howbeit, nine of them were slain. 
4. And the captain, whose sur-name was Dickinson, and the men who followed after him gat much spoil : for the men of Britain had left their carriages and their horses, laden with abundance of food and clothing! 
5. For they had robbed the threshing floors of the husbandmen, and had taken vast: stores of swine's fleshi, and flocks and herds in abundance! 
6. Now it was common in those days for the people of Columbia, old and young, to eat swine's fiesh, yea the mothers would give it to their children, and it was reported that some eat it even on the Sabbath day! 
7. Thus the fountain of life became corrupted, and the inhabitants were diseased through the abundant use thereof. Nevertheless, the flesh was lawful to be eaten in like manner as the flesh of other fed beasts. 
8. Moreover, many of the people of the land drank of the strong waters of Barbados, that burned like fire, and refused the sweet waters of the brook that were designed for the universal beverage of all nations. 
9. And the days of the years of man's life were shortened, and thousands were cut off in the morning of their days! 
10. And it came to pass, that some of the people of the provinces, who had fell away to the men of Britain, came forth from the host to plunder their brethren in the province of Jersey; 
11. But a captain, whose sur-name was Nelson. fell upon them and took captive fifty persons with their captain. 
12. These were the people who traversed the bye paths in the wilderness of Jersey; they hid themselves in the thick forests! they couched down until it was night; then they arose out of their close places, and like the wolves of the evening, they prowled for their prey! 
13. Thus were the calamities of the war increased! parents were bereaved of their children. and children of their parents! the ancients refused to be comforted, because the staff of their age, the beginning of their strength, was fallen! 
14. Trembling took hold on the virgins when they heard the alarm of war, the thunder of the captains and the shoutings! 
15. They remembered the days that were past when they sat under the thick shade of the forest, and hearkened to the voice of their beloved! 
16. When their hands took hold of the distaff, and their delight was in the wool and the flax, the voice of lamentation was afar off, and as for trouble, they had only heard thereof! 
17. But lo! it came suddenly upon them! as a mighty dream! it overwhelmed them! the beloved of their souls was taken captive or slain by the hands of the enemy! they were strucken through with sorrow, because the hope of their expectation was cut off! 
18. These are thy works, O! thou destroyer of man! thou delighted to stride over the field that is covered with the blood of the slain; and the last groans of the dying warrior, are more grateful to thine ear, than the music of the shepherds, or the songs of the enraptured seraph! 

C H A P. XXIL 

Governor Tryon's Expedition to Danbury — Destroys the American stores — His party attacked by Arnold, Wooster and Silliman — General Wooster slain 
NOW when the winter was far spent, and the season of the year advanced when armies go forth to battle, William, the chief captain of the host of Britain, sent a certain captain, with five hundred men, to destroy some stores that were at a certain place called Peek's Hill. 
2. And there were some of the people of the provinces on the hill to guard the stores and when they saw the men of Britain coming against them, they destroyed the stores and fled. 
3. And it grieved George, the chief captain, when he was told that the stores were destroyed, inasmuch as he had cautioned those who had the charge thereof to remove them to secure places. 
4. And another company of the people of Britain, went forth against a town, the name thereof, was Danbury; and the number of the men was about two thousand : and Tryon , one of the king's governors was their captain. 
5. And they passed along the high-way of the country, eight score furlongs; and no man said ought unto them. And the few men who were in the town to defend it, fled. 
6. And they burned the houses of all those who adhered to the great Sanhedrim. Howbeit they spared the houses of the sectof the tories, and burned not their habitations. 
7. And moreover, they destroyed eight hundred barrels of swine's flesh, and the flesh of oxen; and of fine flour, eight hundred barrels, and two thousand bushels of corn; and tents for the soldiers, one thousand seven hundred. 
8. Now while the governor and the two thousand men, were busily employed in the town, three chief captains, David,  Benedict and Silliman, collected some hundreds of the people of the provinces together. 
9. And the men hastened after the three captains, and they journeyed about twelve score furlongs; and they were very weary; notwithstanding, they fell upon the men of Britain who were with the governor. 
10. Moreover Benedict took five hundred men and they moved swiftly on their way, and gat before the governor, and laid impediments in the way of the men of Britain. 
II. Now there were nigh at hand, a ledge of rocks, it was a high place, and the governor and his company gat upon the rocks and they shot at Benedict from thence; and the beast: on which Benedict sat was killed; and he was in great jeopardy, being entangled with the furniture of the beast.

12. And when a soldier who was with the governor, saw that Benedict was in an evil case, he ran and thought to have pierced him with an instrument, and slain him therewith , 
13. But Benedict perceiving the intent of the soldier, shot at him, and slew him there, and then made his escape. 
14. And it came to pass, after this, that the governor journeyed onwards; and the people of the provinces followed after him until the men of Britain gat into the ships that waited for them at an appointed place. 
15. Now there were slain and taken captive of the men who followed after the governor, between two and three hundred persons. 
16. And there fell of the people of the provinces, about twenty men, and about forty were wounded. And a certain doctor was slain, whose name was Atwater, 
17. David was also amongst: the slain, and the princes of the provinces made a decree, that a monument should be set up as a memorial of the valiant acts that he had done. 
18. Moreover the great Sanhedrim honored Benedict with great honor; and gave him a horse, decked out for the war, 
19. Furthermore, the great Sanhedrim honored a certain captain whose sur-name was Meigs, and gave him a sword of curious workmanship, inasmuch as he went forth and burned the shlps of the king of Britain, and took captive, four score and ten persons; and the number of the ships that he burned, was twelve besides two small ones. 


CHAP. XXIII. 



Manoeuvres of General Howe frustrated — The British Army go on hoard their Ships — They land at the Head of Elk, 

NOW the host of the people of the provinces pitched their camp at Middle Brook, in the province of Jersey, and strengthened themselves there. 
2. And William, chief captain of the host of the king of Britain, came forth out of the town where he had sojourned during the winter; and the vanguard of the host: of Britain extended to a certain house where the judges of the land were used to administer to the people. 
3. Howbeit, they soon returned to the place from whence they came, inasmuch as they were informed that the people of the province of Jersey, were united with George, the chief captain, and were come out against them, even a very great multitude. 
4. For the husbandmen had left the care of their flocks to the lads of their household; and they thirsted after revenge, inasmuch as the men of the host of Britain had deceived them. 
5. For it was so, that when the army of Britain was pursuing after the host of Columbia, that William, the chief captain, spake smooth words unto them, and gave them a paper wherein it was written, that all those who demeaned themselves peaceably should not come to any harm either in their persons or possessions, and this paper was called a protection. 
6. Nevertheless the soldiers regarded not the written paper, but did as they listed, and they spoiled the people; and when any of the inhabitants of the provinces complained thereof to William, the chief captain, he turned a deaf ear to the cries of the people. 
7. And, if at any time he rebuked the soldiers for these things, his reproofs were like the reproofs of Eli to his sons, saying, Why do ye such things, for I hear of all your evil doings with this people; nay, verily, but you do wrong, and it is not a good report that I hear concerning you. Thus reasoned he with the men of war, but he restrained them not. 
8. And the host of Britain again came forth, and William trusting in the men of war, put his army in array : but George, the chief captain of Columbia, thought it would not be expedient to go forth to the battle : so the host of the people of the provinces remained in the camp, and went not out. 
9. Now when William saw that the people were not inclined to come forth, he turned himself about, and made as though he fled from the people. Then, some of the people who were with George followed after the host of Britain. 
10. And William, thinking he had gained his purpose, suddenly turned himself about : now George, the chief captain of the armies of Columbia, also moved forwards; and the residue of the host followed after him to Quibble Town, in the province of Jersey. 
11. And when he perceived it was only a cunning decree of William, the chief captain of the host of Britain, he delayed to go forth to the battle; but strengthened himself in that place. 
12. So the devices of the crafty were laid waste, so that they could not perform their enterprise. 
13. Now when the chief captain of the host of Britain, knew of a certainty that it would be attended with great jeopardy, and the loss of many of the lives of the servants of the king of Britain, should they force their way, through the province of Jersey, 
14. Therefore, seeing these things were so, he put his soldiers into the tall ships of the king, of Britain, and the number of the men who were put into the ships, were sixteen thousand persons. 
15. Now George, the chief captain, and the principal men of the host, mused in their minds what this should mean, and some said one thing, and some another. And there were divers opinions, for the dark clouds of uncertainty overshadowed the devices of William, the chief captain. 
16. And after much conjecture, and twenty days were passed, after that the host of Britain had gone into the ships, lo! it was reported to the chief captain of the people of the provinces, that the men of Britain were landed at a certain place called the Head of Elk, in the province of Maryland. 
17. Then the host of the people of the provinces hastened forwards to meet the army of Britain. Now there were but about eight thousand fighting men that were able to go out to war with George, the chief captain. 
18. And there were with William, captain of the host of Britain, sixteen thousand valiant men, prepared with all instruments for war. 
19. Now William thought within himself, that if he suffered the soldiers to spoil the inhabitants in like manner as they, had done in the province of Jersey, he should get to himself a blot, and his name would be had in execration of all the people. 
20. He therefore sent forth written papers to the inhabitants of the land; and it was written therein, that if at any time, any of the soldiers of the army of Britain, behaved themselves unseemly to any of the people, upon notice thereof to the chief captain, they should be punished. 
21. Nevertheless, the soldiers did as they were wont to do in the province of Jersey, and the people despised William in their hearts; inasmuch as he being chief captain, could have restrained the soldiers from doing those things. 
11. And the army of the king of Britam moved forwards towards the chief city of the province of Pennsylvania; and they took with them the destroying engines, but they left their tents and great part of their stuff with their ships. 
23. And George, the chief captain, and the host of the people of the provinces pitched their camp nigh unto a certain ford, where there was a brook of water. 
24. And the host of Britain pitched their camp on the other side of the brook, and both armies prepared for the battle. 

CHAP. XXIV. 

Battle of Brandywine near Chadd,s Ford — Successful on the part of the British. 

AND about the dawning of the day the army of the king of Britain, moved towards the host of the people of the provinces, in two companies : 
2. The first company followed after the captain whose sur-name was Cornwallis, and he was governor of the tower of Lud : and the other company remained by the brook with the captain of the German soldiers, whose name was Kniphausen, 
3. And the first company went along the side of the brook, until they came where it divided into two streams; and when it was mid-day, they passed over. 
4. And the other company drew up in battle array, and appeared as though they intended to pass over the brook at a certain place, called in the vernacular tongue, Chadd's Ford. 
5. And when the first company had passed over the brook, they moved forwards on the other side thereof. 
6. Now the host of the people of the provinces were taken at unawares, and the men of war were discomfited. And they fled before the host of Britain. 
7. Now George, the chief captain, had been told that Cormwallis, the governor of the tower of Lud, was gone back again to unite with Kniphausen the other captain, and he believed the report, that it was even so. Thus were the people of the provinces taken in an evil net, and were fain to turn their backs upon their enemies. 
8. And there were slain and wounded of the men of Britain, about six hundred persons : and the slain and those who were missing of the host of the people of the provinces, were about twelve hundred men. 
9. Now there were of the wounded in the host of the people of the provinces, two chief captains, the name of the first was Fayette, he was a nobleman from the kingdom of Gaul, and had left the land of his nativity to fight under the banners of the great Sanhedrim. 
10. And the name of the other captain was Woodford; howbeit their wounds were not unto death. 
11. And there was yet another nobleman from the kingdom of Poland; and his name was Polaski : he was a mighty man of war. 
12. He conspired against the king his master, and took him captive from amidst the armed men who were his guards, and out of his chief city where he dwelt, 
13. He was like the fierce panther, that abideth in the forests of Columbia! he feared not the face of man, neither regarded he the threatnings of the enemy! the ways of the warrior were open before him, and he strewed the fields with heaps of slain! 
14. And it came to pass after that the host of the people of the provinces had fled from the army of Britain, with William, the chief captain thereof, essayed to get round the host of the people of the provinces on the right hand thereof. 
15. But George, the chief captain, perceiving that he was so minded, prevented him. Thus the devices of the crafty were frustrated, so that they could not perform the things they had desired. 
16. Now the army of the king of Britain and the host of the people of the provinces were nigh unto the house* of a certain publican, in the province of Pennsylvania. 
17. And the two chief captains put the battle in arrny, army against army; and the men of war shouted for the battle. 
18. And when the expectations of the people was at the height, lo! a mighty storm arose, and the rain descended and beat upon the host! And the black dust was spoiled by the rain. 
19. Then George,  the chief captain of the host of the people of the provinces, decamped, and departed thence to a certain place, and the host of Britain followed after him. 
20. And when George had gotten as far as the sign of the White-Horse, on the highway that leadelh to the chief city of the province, he drew up the host of the people of the provinces, and offered the men of Britain battle. 
21. But William declined to go forth that day, and he turned and went to a certain place, where the stores of the king, his master were left : so the army of Britain went to secure the stores. 
2 2. And it was so, that the people of the provinces were in an evil case; for there were in the host a thousand men who went barefooted; for their shoes were worn and gone. 
23. And the bowels of the chief captain yearned towards the people, even as the bowels of a father for his son whom he loveth. 
24. And after these things it came to pass, that the host of Columbia journeyed onwards to a place of safety; and the highways to the city were left unoccupied by the people of the provinces. 
25. Now about this time, a company of the soldiers of the host of Britain, set out privately in the night, and came upon some of the people of the provinces while they were taking their rest in sleep; 
26. -And it was past the hour of midnight when they fell upon the people of the provinces; and they slew about three hundred men and there fell of the men of Britain, about eight persons. Now, the sur-name of the captain of the men of Britain was Grey, 
27. Now the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim, knowing of a certainty that the army of Britain were minded to get into the city, departed thence, lest peradventure they should fall into the hands of their enemies. 


CHAP. XXV. 

Genera! Howe marches into Philadelphia — The Battle of Germantown — The Delaware Frigate captured 

AND it was so, that the greater part of the host of the king of Britain, encamped in a town, in the province of Pennsylvania, the name thereof was Germantown. 
2. And William, the chief captain of the host, took his way to the chief city, and the residue of the host followed after him. 
3. The city was founded by Penn, after the form of ancient Babylon; the streets thereof were fair and comely to behold! her merchants lived like princes! and her honorable men were many in number! 
4. The houses of the chief men of the city were lined with cedar, and the beams, and rafters were of fir, for the cedar and the fir trees were in great abundance in the forests of Columbia; and there was no need to send to Tyre and Sidon for workmen to hew the timber, for the men of Columbia were well skilled in all such matters. 
5. Now the merchants sent every year, great store of the boards of the cedar and of the fir tree to the countries afar off, and the merchants sold them at a certain price, and the wealth of other nations came into the land of Columbia as a flowing stream. 
6. And it was so, that as William, the chief captain, entered into the city, many of the inhabitants came out to do him honor. 
7. Now the great Sanhedrim had deputed Benjamin to go and make affinity with Louis , the king of Gaul, that he might send and help the people of the provinces against their mighty adversaries, the men of Britain. 
8. For the king of Gaul and George, the king of Britain, were often at war with each other. And when Benjamin was told that William had taken the chief city of the provinces, he answered and said: 
9. Say not ye in your hearts that William hath taken the city, but rather say that the city hath taken William; for is he not hemmed in by the host of the people of the provinces on one side, and by the waters of the river on the other side ? 
10. Now Benjamin appeared as though he regarded not these things; and it was so, that all the people heard him gladly, and he was highly esteemed in the kingdom of Gaul, and was called a philosopher, which by interpretation signifieth a lover of wisdom. 
1 1. And it came to pass, after that William, the chief captain of the host of Britain, had gotten into the city, that George, the chief captain of the host: of Columbia, drew nigh unto the men of Britain who were encamped at Germantown. 
12. And Wlliam strengthened himself in the city, and placed the destroying engines on the banks of the river, left, peradventure, the armed ships of Columbia should come and drive him from thence, 
13. And it was so that while the servants of the king of Britain were doing these things, one of the armed ships of Columbia came against the town, and the name of the ship17 was called after the name of the river. 
14. And the destroying engines that were in the ship, discharged their thunders upon the town : but it came to pass, that when the tide went down, the ship ran upon the ground; and the mariners who were therein, seeing that all hope of escaping  w|as gone, delivered themselves up to the men of Britain.
15. And the ship became a prey to the servants of the king of Britain, and the mariners were made captives. 
16. Now while the men of Britain were busied in the city, George, the chief captain of the host of the people of the provinces, called the chief men of the host together; 
17. And when they had communed amongst themselves, the greater part advised, that the host: should move forwards and assault the men of Britain, who were encamped in the town. 
18. Now the host of Columbia had been strengthened by the inhabitants from the province of Virginia, and from Peek's Hill;  and the number of men who came to the help of their brethren, were two thousand and five hundred. 
19. And when the chief captain had ordered the battle, the host moved forwards in several companies : and the sun was just risen upon the earth when the army of the people of the provinces assaulted the men of Britain. 
20. And when the people of the provinces fell upon the men of Britain, who were on the borders of the town, they fled into the town, and the people of the provinces pursued after them. 
21. And a certain captain of the army of Britain, whose sur-name was Musgrove, seeing that the servants of the king of Britain were fleeing before their enemies, he took about three hundred men, and entered into the strong house of Benjamin (now the house was built up with hewn stone, and it was very strong.) 
22. And it was so, that the people of the provinces halted when they came to the house of Benjamin, and they warred with the servants of the king of Britain who were in the house. 
23. Now while they were busied about these things, Nathaniel; assaulted the army of Britain on the right, and the battle waxed hot, and there were many who fell down slain that day! 
24. And another captain whose name was Matthews, took captive of the host of Britain, three score and ten persons. Howbeit they were loosened from their captivity, and the manner of their enlargement was on this wise; 
25. For lo! a great mist arose, and the sun was darkened, and the men appeared at a distance as trees walking , and Matthews wist not to which company he was captain : and it came to pass, that the army of Britain environed him round about, and all his company, and the men he had taken captives. 
26. Now there were many valiant acts done that day : nevertheless the host of the people of the provinces fled before the servants of the king of Britain, 
27. And Cornwallis, a lord, and a chief captain in the army of Britain, and several men with him, pursued after the people of the provinces, on swift horses. 
28. Now the slain and wounded of people of the provinces and those who were taken captives, were about six hundred men: and there were slain, wounded and taken captive of the men of Britain, about five hundred persons. 
29. And there were two captains of the army of Britain, slain; the name of the first captain was Agnew, and the name of the other was Bird. 
30. And there was also slain a captain of the people of the provinces, whose sur-name was Nash, and his armorbearer fell with him. 

CHAP. XXVI. 

Operations against Fort Mifflin, on Mud-Island — and Red-Bank — The former finally evacuated by the Americans, 

NOW there was a strong hold that was built on an island in the river; it was occupied by the people of the provinces, and it was called after the name of Thomas, one of the princes of the provinces. 
2. There was also another strong hold about four furlongs from the former, and it was built on a portion of ground that appertained unto James, he was an honorable man, and he had several sons and daughters; and his sons were men of renown and beloved of the people; they dwelt in the province of Jersey, and the hold was nigh unto the river. 
3. Now the people of the provinces had laid impediments in the way of the ships of the king of Britain, so that they could not get to the city; and the host of Britain were sore troubled because of these things. 
4. And the victuals and all the implements for war that were wanted in the host, they brought in carriages to the city, and the charge thereof was great, and the arrival of the carriages uncertain. 
5. Then the chief captain of the navy of Britain, and William, chief captain of the host of the king, cast in their minds how they should gain the strong hold that was on the island. 
6. And they toiled hard for many days, and they shot into the hold, and the destroying engines beat down the buildings that were on the island; and the men who were therein were sore galled by the men of Britain and the destroying engines. nevertheless, the garrison maintained their integrity. 
7. And after many days watching, and sore conflicts, both from the water and also fronm the land, and when many valiant men were slain, the chief captain of the navy of the king of Britain, was told there was a way round the hinder part of the island where a ship might pass, so as to come nigh unto the hold. 
8. And when the chief captain heard thereof, he lightened a ship, so that she would not draw much depth of water; and valiant men were put therein; and the ship moved along on the face of the water, and came against: the hinder part of the hold. 
9. And when the garrison saw the ship, and the armed men ready with the instruments of war, all hopes of resistance vanished; for their destroying engines were rendered useless, and the means of defence were destroyed. 
10 Now it came to pass, when it was night, that the men who were in the hold, escaped to the province of Jersey, to the strong hold that was built on the portion of ground that belonged to James, 
11. And the captain who was over the men in the hold, gat great honor; his sur-name was Smith; moreover the great Sanhedeim gave him a sword of some carved work, the work of the hand of the cunning workman! 
12. Now there were several ships that were armed with the destroying engines, and they annoyed the navy of Britain, and the captain of the ships alio gat great honor; his sur- name was Hazlewood aind he also received a sword. 
13. Now the implements that were put into the river to keep the ships of the king from coming to the city, were strong and many; 
14. They were made of the large fir-trees of Columbia, and they weree put one upon another, and large pieces of barbed iron wrere fastened thereto; and when they were fashioned together, they were let down into the waters of the river. 
15. And the machines with the barbed iron pointed towards the ships, and lo! when the ships came upon the points of the barbed iron, they were marred, and the waters of the river rushed into the ships, and they were filled with the waters of the river. 

CHAP, XXVII 

Fort on Red Bank — The Hessians under Count Donop are defeated— -Finally evacuated on the 
approach of Lord Cornwallis with a large force — Count Donop dies of his wounds 

AND when the servants of the king of Britain had gotten possession of the strong  hold on the island, the ships of the king of Britain moved along upon the face of the water, and came to the city; and there was great rejoicing because of this thing. 
2. And it came to pass, that after the hold was taken, and before the navy of the king of Britain had cast anchor before the city, that WILLIAM the captain of the host, sent a certain captain and two thousand men to take the strong hold in the province of Jersey, that was built on the portion of ground that appertained to the inheritance of James, 
3. And the name of the captain whom he sent, was Donop, he was from the German country; and the men who went with him, were the soldiers who were hired of the German princes, and they went by the name of Hessians. in the land of Columbia, 
4. And Donop, the captain, passed over the river, and the two thousand men followed after him, and they landed in the province of Jersey. 
5. They took the highway that leadeth from the house of William the publican, to the field of Haddon; and as they passed along the way, some of the men turned aside and went to the house of Jacobs that stood near the way side. 
6. Now Peter was dressing the fleece of Jacob's sheep, and Gideon was at the house of Jacob, and they were all taken captive : and it came to pass, that as Gideon drew nigh unto Donop the captain, he smote Gideon with the staff that was in his hand, upon the head ) but Jacob and Peter were not smitten. 
7. Then the captain and the men journeyed forwards; and the sun was going down when they entered the field of Haddon, and they abode there that night. 
8. And on the morning of the next day, about the time of the cock-crowing, the men of war departed from the field of Haddon, and passed along the highway through the province of Jersey, towards the strong hold.
9. And as they came to the borders of Joseph, whose house stood by the way side, lo! Joseph came out to see the armed men; but  he wist not that they were so nigh at hand. 
10. And when he would fain have escaped and gone into his house, one of the armed men called to him in an unknown tongue; bur he understood him not and the man smote Joseph with a sword that he had in his hand, and the zeal of Joseph was kindled against the man. 
11 Now when the men drew nigh unto the hold, Donop) the captain sent a messenger to demand that it should be given up, and all that was therein; 
12. But the captain in the strong hold, whose sur-name was Greene,* hearkened not to the voice of Donop the captain, but prepared himself to resist the enemy with all his might. 
13. Then was the wrath of Donop, captain of the Hessians kindled, against the people of the provinces, was his wrath kindled! and he gave command that every man should be ready with his weapons of war in his hand , 
14. And he rushed forwards as a horse into the battle, or as a bird to the snare of the fowler, and knew not that it was for his life and his men followed after him, 
15. Now there was a vacant place that had been occupied as a place of defence; and when the captain of the garrison knew of a certainty that the Hessians were coming against: the hold, he left it for a station more inward. 
16. And it was so, that when the Hessians had gotten into the vacant place, they shouted with a great shout,0 supposmg their warfare was accomplished. 
17. But lo! the men in the hold stood ready, every man with his weapon of war in his hand; and when the enemies of the people of the provinces, even the Hessians, came near unto the battlements, the destroying engines were let loose, and they cast out their thunders. 
18. And the Hessians fell down slain in great multitudes , and Donop the captain, was taken captive, and was sore wounded, and died of his wounds. 
19. Now there were slain of the Hessians about four hundred persons, and the battle continued about half an hour, and the residue made their escape and fled, 
20. Now the bellowings of the destroying engines were heard afar off, and the shouting of the men of war, resounded from shore to shore, and from province to province! 
21. The flocks and the herds were driven from the pastures! they fought the thick shade of the forest! the hair of their flesh stood up at the sound of the battle of the warriors! 
22. The knees of the ancients smote together! the terrors of death encompassed them round about! they eat their bread in fear, and their drink was mingled with their tears! 
23. And the captain in the hold gat great honor, and the princes of the provinces, even the great Sanhedrim, gave him a sword of curious workmanship. 
24. So the strong hold remained in the hands of the people of the provinces : nevertheless, Cornwallis came with a great army not many days after and when the garrison heard thereof, they destroyed the hold and departed. 



C H A P. XXVIll. 

The Hessians retreat through the Jerseys and plunder the Inhabitants, 

NOW after that Donop the captain was slain, the residue of the host turned back again; and as they passed along through the province of Jersey, they spoiled the inhabitants thereof. 
2. And every thing that was pleasant to the eye, they took away! they were like greedy dogs that never had enough! they spared not, neither did they pity! 
3. Desolation and destruction marked the paths of their feet! and those who had fared delicately every day, were glad of a morsel of bread! 
4. Nevertheless, they were gamers in the end, inafmuch as they learned more true wisdom in the hour of adversity, than had been known while they were basking in the sunshine of prosperity! 
5. They were taught that the cup of felicity, without some mixture of the wormwood and the gall, was by no means a draught for mortal man! 
6. Moreover their hearts expanded with benevolence towards the children of misfortune, they fought them out in their solitary cottages, they informed themselves of their varied wants, and with a liberal hand chafed away the cause of their woe! 
7. The blessings of the poor came upon them, and the tear of gratitude abundantly repaid their liberality! They moreover reaped the rich harvest of self-approving thoughts! and could say with propriety, I have not altogether lived in vain! 
8. The golden wedge of Ophir, and the diamond of Golconda, lost for a time their magic influence! The pleasures of sensuality were absorbed in the boundless prospect of inestimable treasures! treasures of eternal duration! 
9. But alas! when the day of peace returned, pleasure tempted them with her golden wings! file spread abroad her allurements, and many who had once seen the vanity of earthly riches, were caught in her snares, and lost sight of substantial felicity in the pursuit of shadows 1 
10. Let the children of poverty comfort themselves, inasmuch as they are removed far from the snares of the dissipated sons of voluptuousness, whose tents are surrounded by the harbingers of the king of terrors! who rideth on the pale horse 1 and whose name is death! 
11. Harken, therefore ye children to the instruction of the aged., and let the hoary head teach you wisdom; like beacons on the shore of the sea, they point to the unwary traveller, and shew him the rocks and quicksands that abound in the turbulent ocean of life! 
12. The counsel they give, is the fruit of experience. Do thou therefore regard it as the oracle of truth! they speak of what they have seen, and are qualified by wisdom to steer thy bark with safety into the desired port! 
13. In the morning of thy days, in the prime of thy life, when thou art released from the guardian ship of thine elders, when thy father hath paid the great debt of nature, and his bones are covered with the clods of the valley, and thou art about to launch forth into the busy scenes of life, 
14. Then is the hour of danger! then will that arch foe to man's happiness, whose name is self-sufficiency, endeavour to persuade thee that thou art wiser than the ancients, who have trodden the path before thee! 
15. He will tell thee, thine own understanding is sufficient to conduct thee with safety to the ultimate end for which thou wast created! 
16. But hearken thou not to his delusive words, for thousands have been led astray by his counsel!
17. Let wisdom have place in thine heart, let her have the direction of all thy actions; and let caution take thee by the hand! then shalt thou be led with safety through all the apartments of human bliss on earth, and the hope of thine expectation shall not perish! 
18. Thou shalt descend with fortitude the declivity of life! a pleasing serenity shall play around thine heart at that important moment when a new state of existence shall open before thee! then shall thine eyes behold with transport, the reward of thy virtue! stamped with the seal of eternal truth! 


CHAP. XXIX. 

The British and American Armies go into winter quarters — Sir Guy Carlton is succeeded by General Burgoyne — The Militia, under General Herkimer, fall into an ambuscade of Indians and Tories, led by Sir John Johnson and St. Leger, who were upon an expedition against Fort Schuyler, 

NOW it came to pass, after the strong holds on the river were destroyed, and the ships of the king of Britain had cast anchor before the city, that the men of war went into their winter encampments. 
2. The soldiers of the king of Britain occupied the houses in the city they feared not the driving snow nor beating rain! inasmuch as they were clad in warm clothing, that was made of the fleeces of sheep, which fed in fat pastures of the island of Albion! 
3. But it was not so with the valiant men of Columbia, who fought the battles of the great Sanhedrim! they were poorly clad, and many of them walked barefooted to the place of their encampment; and the frozen earth was stained with the blood of the men of war! 
4. Amongst the trees of the forest, they pitched their tents! the fierce howlings of the winter storm chased away their repose! they were like unto a ship in a troubled sea! they were tossed in their minds as a leaf driven to and fro by contending currents! 
5. Nevertheless, the spirit of opposition remained firm within them! the words of the great Sanhedrim were as a law written in their inward parts! they had tasted of the waters of strife, and the thoughts of submission were driven far away, even as the chaff is driven from the threshing floor of the husbandman! 
6. But William, chief captain of the armies of Britain, fared sumptuously every day, he delighted himself with vain sports and shews! and was occupied in those things that were not seemly for a warrior! he loved pleasure, and became vain in his imaginations! 
7. He lightly esteemed the glory of Britain! he seemed to account it as a thing of nought! yea, he caused his nation to be evil spoken of! 
8. Even the sect of the tories, they despised him! he caused many of them to turn aside and walk in the footsteps of the great Sanhedrim! 
9. Now it came to pass, while William was wasting the treasure of the king his master, in the pursuit of the vain imaginations of his own heart, that tidings came from the province of the North.
10. Now John, a valiant man, from the island of Britain, was made chief captain over the men of war, in the room of Guy; howbeit Guy held his peace, and murmured not at the appointment of John, 
11. And there was a strong hold in the province, which was occupied by the servants of the great Sanhedrim it was nigh unto a river,  and John desired to have the hold for a place of defence, 
12. And Johm sent two valiant men against the hold to take it. And the barbarians of the wilderness, and some of the soldiers of Britain, and of the sect of the tories followed after the men whom John had sent : the name of the first was Johnson, and the name of the second St. Leger, 
13. Now there were some of the people of the provinces gathered together, under Herkimer, a captain and servant to the great Sanhedrim, and the number of men who were thus gathered, were about eight hundred persons. 
14. And when Johnson heard thereof, he went forth to lie in wait for the people. And about seven hundred barbarians and a number of the sect of the tories followed after him. 
15. They hid themselves in the wilderness! they couched down as a lion, and as a young lion they watched for their prey! yea, they thirsted for the blood of their enemies, even as the way-faring man thirsteth for the brooks of water, when he is faint with heat. 
16. And the people who were with Herkimer journeyed forwards in the simpliciry of their hearts, for they wist not that there were liers in wait! 
17. And it came to pass, as they journeyed forwards, that the liers in wait arose out of their secret places, and fell upon the people who were with Herkimer, and slew seven score persons of the people of the provinces 
18. And there fell of the chief warriors of the barbarians, three score and ten men, who were well skilled in drawing the bow, and could shoot an arrow to an hair's breadth and not miss! 
19. And the battle waxed hot, and Herkimer the captain, was slain; and the widows and fatherless were multiplied in the land! 
20. The strife of the warriors was cruel! they rushed upon each other as the streams from the mountains! their countenances were dark and gloomy as the clouds from the South in the heat of summer, when the earth is parched with heat! 
21. So fierce18 was their warfare, that the barbarians were astonished with fear! and jealousy took hold on their minds! 
22. And they said to their young men, Lo!  now we shall be cut off by these people — they are confederated together, notwithstanding their seeming animosity. 
23. And they commanded them to fall upon all the white people (for so they called the people of the provinces and the sect of the tories) and there were as many of the sect of the tories slain by the barbarians, as by the people of the provinces! 
24. And Johnson seeing that the people were confused, and that there was a great discomfiture; he caused a retreat to be sounded, and every man went to his own tent. 


CHAP, XXX. 

St. Leger attempts to terrify the Garrison in Fort Schuyler ( formerly Stanwix ) is unsuccessful — Col. Willet and Lieutenant Stockwel undertake to go the Camp at Stillwater — General Schuyler sends a detachment under Arnold--- The Indians retreat with precipitation (occasioned by a Stratagem of Arnold) and the British follow their example. 

Now St.. Leger, the servant of the king of Britain and captain of the host, cast in his mind how he should get possession of the hold; and he thought to have terrified the men of war who were therein. 
2. And he sent a herald to the governor of the garrison, to demand possession thereof, in the name of the king his master. He exceedingly magnified his own strength, and thought to make the hearts of the men of war to melt! 
3. Howbeit they stood firm in their love to the great Sanhedrim, and hearkened not to the words of St. Leger. 
4. Nevertheless the governor of the garrison, privately sent two valiant men while it was yet night; who put their lives in their hands, and they went forth, and passed by the encampment of their enemies!
5. Now their way lay across the war path of the barbarians, whose frightful yellings were heard upon the tops of the mountains 1and resounded in the forests! making the hearts of the husbandmen to quake for fear! 
6. And the two men passed on, notwithstanding the dangers that were in the way! The phantoms of imagination pursued them! the fear of their enemies added wings to their feet! 
7. The wild best of the forest passed by!  a rustling was heard among the trees! Ah! there they cried, is the son of the murderer! the sound of his feet is heard! 
8. Again they hear the terrific yell! The hair of their flesh stood up! they made ready the instruments of death! they prepared to meet the dreadful foe! 
9. The lamps19 of midnight marked out a path for their feet — they journeyed forwards with fear! and the terrors of the night environed them round about! 
10. They rejoiced at the dawning of the day! they had longed for it more than for hidden treasure! and when the sun arose, they were an hungered. 
11. A table20 was spread for them in the wilderness! the fruit of the bramble sustained them! until they arrived in safety to the encampment of their brethren, beside Still-Water. 
12. Now Philips was chief captain of the men of war who were at Still-Water; and when he was told that the garrison in the hold were in a strait, he gathered together a band of men. 
13, And Benedict offered to go before the men, and conducted them to the hold, and Philip rejoiced thereat; inasmuch as he knew that Benedict was a valiant man, who turned not his back in the day of battle. 
14. And there was a notable prisoners with Philips and he was called a spy (now a spy was accounted an abominable thing in those days, they were not suffered to live, but were hanged up before the host, even as a dog is hanged on a tree, and they knew their place no more!)  
15. And Benedict spake to the man, and said, lo! now thy life is forfeited, nevertheless if thou wilt go to the camp of our enemies and make them afraid, so that they flee before us; then thou wilt do well; 
16. And thy life shall be given thee for a prey; thy possessions shall not be given to another, neither shall a stranger possess thine inheritance; but it shall be thine all the days of thy life, and thy children after thee! moreover the favor of the great Sanhedrim shall rest upon thee! 
17. And it was so, that the messenger promised to do all that Benedict had bidden him. And he went forth towards the camp of the barbarians; 
18. And when he came to the camp, he reported the words that had proceeded out of the mouth of Benedict, Moreover he told them. That the host of the people of the provinces was strong and mighty, even a very great multitude. 
19. And while he was yet speaking, lo! one of their own tribe also came into the camp, and rehearsed unto them the same words. 
20. And when the barbarians had heard the tidings; they were all discomfited, and they all arose as one man to flee away! for the fear of the host of Columbia, and the fear of Benedict had fallen upon them! 
21. Now when St. Leger heard thereof, he was sore vexed; and he sought to persuade them to tarry with him; but he could not prevail, although he offered them of the strong water of Barbadoes to drink; well knowing they loved it even as their own souls! 
22. Furthermore, they reproached him, inasmuch as he had told them that if they would follow after the host of Britain, they should not go forth to the battle, but should be at peace and burn the sweet scented plant of the South country, and regale themselves with the perfumes thereof! Only with their eyes they should behold the rebellious sons of Columbia, fleeing before the host of Britain, even as the stricken hart fleeth before the hunters! 
23. So the host fled, and left much spoil; and the people of the provinces gathered thereof in great abundance. 

CHAP. XXXI. 

General Burgoyne advances, sends a detachment to seize the stores at Bennington; they are repulsed with vigor , and a great part of the detachment cut off. 

NOW it came to pass, in the seventeen hundred and seventy-seventh year of the great Founder of the Christian sect, that the armies of the North moved towards each other; even the army of Britain, under John, whose sur-name was Burgoyne; and the host of th. people of the Provinces, under Horatio  a chief captain and servant to the great Sanhedrim.
2. Now 'when Burgoyne was told that there were large stores of corn and fine flour at Bennington, collected for the soldiers of the Columbian host, he purposed m his heart to deprive the people of the Provinces thereof.
3. And he prepared an army of valiant men, that they might go forth and take possession of the stores; for verily he needed those things, even the corn and the fine flour, for he was in a strange land, and had not abundance of bread. 
4. Howbeit he took counsel of a man whosc sur-name was Skine; he was a servant of the king, and an officer in the host of Britain : and he had possessions in that country. 
5. And the man, even Skine, spake after this manner, saying : lo! now thou purposeth in thy heart, to send an army to seize the stores of the people of the Provinces, that are collected together at Bennington. 
6. Know thou of a truth, that my heart IS not with thy heart in this thing, for verily thy servant knoweth, that the people who occupy the country round about, are true men; they love the king, and are zealous to observe the laws of the realm of Britain :
7. Send therefore only a small company of the young men of the host, and let them go forth, and let the banners of Britain, even the royal ensign of the king, go before them , and verily thou shalt behold the people gather to it, like the gathering of the congreation before the doors of the synagogue when alms are wont to be given. 
8. And it was so, that Burgoyne, the chief captain hearkened to the voice of Skine, and he sent a certain captain with his company, who came from the German country, and five score of the Barbarians of the wilderness followed after them. 
	9. And another captain with his company also journeyed forwards, and these were commanded to encamp at Battenkill, that they might be ready to help the foremost company; and the captain's name was Breyman. 
10. Now there were a captain nigh unto Bennington : he was a servant of the great Sanhedrim, and his name was Stark; and there was with him a large number of the people of the Provinces, who were come out to withstand the servants of the king. 
11. And when the captain, even Stark, was told that a company was coming towards the stores, he sent forth a band of chosen men, and he appointed a valiant man whosc sur- name was Gregg, to go before them. 
12. And when they had journeyed a few furlongs, lo! they saw the Barbarians of the wilderness approaching, and a company of the German soldiers were in the rear of the Barbarians. 
13. Then the people who were with Gregg, fled and reported the tidings to Stark, chief captain in that place. 
14. And it was so, that the captain gathered his army together, and he led the people forth to the battle. 
15. Now there were with him, three other captains, namely, Warner, Williams; and a man whose sur-name was Brush : these were valiant men, and went forth before the men of war. 
16. And it came to pass, when they drew nigh to the servants of the king of Britain, they put the battle in array, army against army. 
17. Now when the German captain, whose sur-nam.e was Baum, saw that the people of the provinces were strong, and that the inhabitants of the land did not come forth to the help of the king, as Skine had said, he seat a messenger unto Burgoyne the chief captain, and advertised him thereof: 
18. Then was the captain who was encamped at Battenkill, commanded to go forth with his company to the help of his brethren, and he did so. 
19. And the chief captain, even Burgoyne, and all the people who were with him, journeyed along the borders of the river, and they encamped nigh unto the plains of Saratoga. 
20. Now it came to pass, that the people of the Provinces who followed after Stark, fell upon the company who were with the German captain, and environed them round about; and the Barbarians were smitten with fear and fled: nevertheless three of their chief warriors were slain. 
21. And it was about the third hour in the afternoon, when the people of the Provinces rushed in upon their enemies; and the breaking in of the men of war, was like the breaking in of the waters upon the pastures of the husbandmen, when the rivers are swelled by the vehement driving of the east wind! 
22. And the battle lasted about the space of two hours, and the noise of the destroying engines was like the continued rumbling of thunder in the midst of summer! 
23. And it was so, that while the people of the Provinces were gathering the spoil of their enemies, lo! the company from Battenkill were nigh at hand, about sixteen furlongs off. 
24. Then were the people of the Provinces strengthened by another company, and they moved towards their enemies, as to a certain victory; and they met the servants of the king; who were taken in an evil net, and three hundred of them were slain, and seven hundred were taken captive. 
25. Now when the princes of the Provinces, even the great Sanhedrim, heard of these things, they rejoiced thereat; and they made a decree that the man, even Stark, should be made a chief captain in the host of Columbia. 

CHAP. XXXII. 

The British army encamp on the heights and plains of Saratoga; and the American army at the Still-Water — a smart engagement ensues, wherein the Americans are successful. General Clinton makes a diversion to relieve Burgoyne, and attacks Fort Montgomery. 

NOW when tidings came to Burgoyne, the chief captain of the host of Britain, how that the servants of the king were slain and taken captive at Bennington, he was sore troubled; inasmuch as the same thereof would damp the ardour of the warriors of Britain. 
2. Nevertheless he pitched his camp nigh unto the host of Columbia, even on the plains and high-lands of Saratoga; and the people of the Provinces were encamped at the Still- water : and the space between the two armies was about sixteen furlongs. 
3. And it was so, that as some of the young men of the army of Britain went forth to view the camp of their enemies, they were met by some of the people who followed after Horatio, and they drove with each other in the way. 
4. And when the chief captains, Burgoyne and Horatio, heard the noise of the men of war, they put the battle in array, army against army : 
5. And when it was mid-day, the battle waxed hot : death invaded all ranks, and many valiant men were slain; and the strife of the warriors continued until the going down of the sun : 
6. And there were slain, wounded, and taken captive of the men of Britain, about five hundred persons; and there fell of the people of the Provinces, three score and four valiant men, who turned not their backs in the day of battle! 
7. Now the Barbarians who were yet remaining with Burgoyne, the chief captain, when they beheld the valiant acts of the people of the Provinces, they refused to help the men of Britain, but went over to the host of Columbia; and served the king of Britain no more. 
8. And the names of the tribes who went over to the host: of Columbia, were the Oneidas, the Tuscaroras, the Onondagas, and the Mohawks. 
9. Now Horatio, was occupied in strrengthening the camp of the people of the Provinces round about; and there came to the help of Horatio, Lincoln, a valiant man, and two thousand men with him, prepared with instruments for war. 
10. And it was so. that when tidings came to Henry, whose sur-name was Clinton, (he was chief captain of the king's forces in the city of New York) how that the people of the Provinces pressed hard upon the host of the king in the Northern Province; 
11. And fearing lest Burgoyne should be discomfited, and the men who were with him, he privately sent a messenger with a written letter, thereby informing him that he purposed at a convenient time, to fall upon a strong hold occupied by the great Sanhedrim. 
12. For Henry thought to have diverted Horatio from his purpose, and that he would certainly come and save the hold; but Horatio was in one mind, and was not to be turned. 
13 Now when John, whose sur-name was Burgoyne, had received the written letter, he was refreshed and his spirit revived. 
14. Then he sent two valiant men who disguised themselves in shepherd's apparel, and he spake to them nearly on this wise "Go ye now to the city of York, and tell Henry the chief captain concerning all things relating to the war, and that there is provender for the host until such a day, and that  the host will abide here, in this place, until then." 
15. And It was so, that the men went forth from the camp, and journeyed through the wilderness, and escaped the perils that were in the way; and they went into the city and reported all the words of Jobn, in the ears of Henry, whose sur-name was Clinton. 
16. Not many days after, there came more soldiers from the island of Britain, and the number of them, was about two thousand fighting men; and Robertson, a chief captain and renowned in war, came with the soldiers. 
17. And then the soldiers were landed from the ships, and had refreshed themselves; it came to pass at a convenient season, that Henry numbered the men of war, and led them forth to battle. 
1 8. And they came against the hold that was called by the name of the chief captain, who was slain by Guy, the king's governor. 
19. And they besieged the hold round about; and Henry sent a messenger to the governor of the garrison, and demanded of him to deliver up the hold and all that was therein, 
20 Howbeit, the governor refused to obey the summons, and strengthened himself against the men of Britain. 
21. Nevertheless, the army of Britain rushed forwards, they bore down all opposition; they ascended the battlements of the enemy;they brake into their defenced places! Howbeit, the governor and his brother, and two hundred men escaped, and fled to the mountains; and the noise of the battle of the warriors was as the sound of many waters. 
22. And the slain and wounded of the men of Britain, were about three hundred persons. 
23. Then the people of the Provinces, seeing that the army of Britain was strong, and that they could not stand before their enemies, they burned another hold, that was in the vicinity of the former j and two of the armed ships of Columbia, lest they should fall into the power of the enemy, 
24. And about the same time, Tryon, who was one of the king's governors, lift up his hand against the people of the Provinces; and to shew a zeal for the king, he burned a town with fire, and all that was therein. 

CHAP. XXXIII. 

The British army distressed and nearly surrounded — their provision begins to grow scarce — en- deavour to extricate themselves , but are repulsed with considerable lost. Intrepidity of General Arnold, General Frazier slain, 

NOW after Burgoyne the chief captain had waited until the appointed time, and no help appeared, when provisions for the host began to fail; then he drew forth about fifteen hundred chosen men, and went to view the host of the people of the Provinces. 
2. And he hoped to have found out a way, whereby he might deliver himself from the danger that surrounded him : and two chief captains were with him, namely, Phillips and Reidesel. 
3. And as they were going towards the host of Columbia, lo! they were met in the way by some of the servants of the great Sanhedrim. 
4. And there were with the servants of the king who went out to view the host, some of the destroying engines, that were made of brass, and the balls that issued out of their mouths, weighed five hundred and seventy-six shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; and many of the sons of men were felled to the earth therewith! 
5. And when the servants of the great Sanhedrim appeared, lo! the brazen engines uttered their thunders, and the people were fain to shelter themselves behind the trees of the forest, which were a sure defence against the balls that were shot from the brazen engines. 
6. Nevertheless when the people of the Provinces had taken courage, they rushed forth upon the tall men of Britain, but they could not prevail, because they were as a wall of brass and united together, and were like to a three folded chord, not easily broken. 
7. And the battle waxed hot, and the greater part of the host of Britain, and the army of the people of the Provinces were engaged in fierce war. 
8. And Benedict distingished himself that day, and gat great honor; inasmuch as he brake through the host of Britain, and entered into their places of defence, and drove them before him as sheep are driven from one pasture to another. 
9. And it was so, that while the men of war were driving for the victory, that a large company of the German soldiers fled, and returned not again to the battle; and the men of Britain imputed the loss of the battle to them. 
10. And the host of Britain returned into the camp, and Burgoyne the chief captain was sorely troubled; the perturbation of his thoughts were like a troubled sea : moreover the famine prevailed in the camp, and the ,people whom he had despised, were stronger than he. 

11. Furthermore, the balls from the destroying engines were shot into his camp; they came from the North and from the South, from the East and from the West; for the people of the Provinces occupied all the avenues that led to the camp, and there was no way to escape. 
12. And while the chief captain was ruminating upon these things with Phillips and Reidesel by his side, chief captains and his companions in the war; lo  the dead body of his friend, with whom he used to take sweet counsel, whose sur-name was Frazier, was borne upon the shoulders of the servants of his household : 
13. They were carrying him to the high place, called in the language of the men of Britain, the Great Redoubt, the burying-place he had chosen for himself, 
14. Now he had desired that the usual ceremonies of the dead should be omitted, and that he might be privately buried by his own servants; nevertheless, the three captains, Burgoyne, Phillips and Reidesel, struck with sorrow and indignation at the mournful and humiliating scene, and seeing their affections kindled, they could not refrain from paying the last office of love to their deceased brother. 
15. They followed the bier until they came to the burying-place, and lo! while the obsequies were performing, and the preacher was executing his office, and the people were attending upon this solemn occasion, they were shot at by the servants of the great Sanhedrim! 
16. The balls from the destroying engines raised clouds of dust that covered the priest and the people; nevertheless the preacher altered not his voice, neither did his counte nance change, during the terrific and aweful scene! 
17. The love of life was absorbed by the ardent affection that was felt for the departed warrior; they made an end of the sad solemnity, and the shade of the evening advanced and hid them from their enemies : but had Horatio known the occasion of the people's gathering together, they might have buried their dead in peace. 
18. Now James, armour-bearer to Burgoyne the chief captain, and Breyman a German captain, were slain; and Williams and Ackland, two valiant men, were taken captive; and about two hundred of the soldiers of Britain; and the people of the Provinces got: great store of warlike spoil. 

CHAP. XXXIV. 

The army commanded by General Burgoyne, after several fruitless endeavors to escape, finally capitulate. 

AND it was so, that the host of Britain were In an evil case; their sorrows were multiplied; the famine raged in the camp, and there was no way to escape; and their enemies environed them round about. 
2. For lo! when they assayed to go back again, there was the armed men of Columbia in the way; and when they attempted to pass over the river, their enemies were on the other side thereof: 
3. And if they abode in the camp, they were cut off by the balls of the destroying engines, and there was no remedy! 
4. Then the chief captain, even Burgoyne was fain to call the principal men of the host together, that they might counsel him what to do, and advise together touching all things relating to the war. 
5. And as the counsel were deliberating together, a ball from the destroying engines passed over the table, and they were astonished and the fire of the warriors, even the haughty spirit of man was quenched. 
6. Then they hastily concludd that the chief captain should send a deputation to Horatio, chief captain of the host of Columbia, and that he should send proposals of peace. 
7' And it came to pass, that the chief captain sent a messenger to Horatio, and the messenger was instructed to obtain an answer from Horatio, that would accord with the desire of the counsel. 
8. Now when Horatio was told that a messenger was coming from the host of Britain, and that the ensign of peace was carried before him, he ordered the men of war to bring him into his presence : 
9. And he entreated him kindly, and he sent an answer of peace to Burgoyne the chief captain, and he sent certain proposals; and the scribe of the host wrote the proposals on paper, and Horatio sealed the paper with his own signet  and the messenger departed, 
10. And when John had opened the written paper, and had read the conditions, his anger was kindled; inasmuch as Horatio had demanded, that the soldiers of Britain should lay down their insruments of war, in their encampment, and become captives to the people of the Provinces. 
11. Then the chief captain of the host of Britain, sent another messenger to Horatio with an epistle; and it was written therein,  “Sooner than this army will do as thou hast desired, they will rush into the midst of their enemies, determined to take no quarter.”
12. Howbeit, after a certain time, Horatio agreed to the terms proposed by Burgoyne the chief captain; for he was not careful to exact: the uttermost:, or wound too deeply the feelings of the unfortunate; neither was it a light matter to captivate an army of Britons, for such a thing had not been heard of, since the years of many generations. 
13. And the writings were signed, and the signets of the two chief captains were prefixed thereunto, in the seventeen hundred and seventy-seventh year of the Christian Hegira, in the tenth month, and on the thirteenth day of the month, were they executed. 
14. And there were taken first and last, of the army of Britain, according to the written record of Ramsay the scribe, ten thousand men; and large stores of all kinds of implements for war! 
15. Thus the army of Britain, became captives to the people of the Provinces. 
16. O Britain, how is thy glory tarnished! thy warriors are become weak! they are enervated! they have lost that noble fire that animated their forefathers! my soul is troubled for thy degenerate sons, whose progenitors trod upon the necks of their enemies and had to sheath their swords for lack of opposition! 
17. Bear witness ye Henrys, and ye Edwards, when ye led forth the hardy sons of Britain, against the embattled host; when one of her sons was an overmatch for thrice the number of the furious Gauls; or call to mind, O Albion! the reign of thy virgin-queen, Eliza; who stood alone, and was prosperous in all her wars! 
18. When thy navy, arrayed in terrific splendor, moved sublimely upon the face of the great deep, and surrounding nations trembled at thy power ! 
19. What a humiliating contrast is here! thy sons are now taken captive by a people unused to war; whose occupation is husbandry, and whose greatest skill is in the use of the plow, the hoe, and the mattock. 
20. Is not the wickedness that aboundeth in thy borders, the cause of thy misfortunes ? for vice and luxury weaken the people, and the rulers causeth them to err. 
21. Thus ended the warfare of the northern army, and Horatio and Benedict gat great honour; and an account of their valiant acts, were recorded in the books of the great Sanhedrim. 

CHAP. XXXV. 

Sir William Howe prepares to embark for England; is succeeded in command by Sir Henry Clinton, Unsuccessful expedition of the Marquis la Fayette. 

NOW the time drew nigh, when William, chief captain of all the armies of the king, in the land of Columbia, was to resign his captainship to another; and depart to the island of Britain, to give an account of his warfare to George, the king; and to the great Council of the Kingdom. 
2. And the captains of the host assembled themselves together, and prepared a great feast:; and spent the night in vain sports and shows, in honor to the chief captain. 
3. They made various representations, marvellous to behold; they were the inventions of cunning men : and same, the goddess of the heathens, was perfigured, holding a trumpet to her mouth, blowing out in letters of light, the praises of their chief captain, in these words, " Thy laurels shall never fade." 
4. Now these men were like the prophets of Ahab, who always prophesied good unto the king; who spake deceit, and flattery proceeded out of their mouths. 
5. If it was not even so, then let the nations judge for the laurel is a symbol of victory; and what marvellous acts can be ascribed to William, the chief captain. 
6. Now I would willingly expostulate with thee, O William! the opening of my lips, shall be of right things; my tongue shiall speak the truth, for a lye is an abominable thing; yea, it is a detestable thing : suffer me therefore to speak, for I wish to justify thee. 
7. True it is, thou sailed from the island of Britain, to the town of Boston; from thence thou passed to Hallifax; from Hallifax, thou came to Long-Island; from thence, thou sailed to the city of York; and lastly, thou came to the city of Philadelphia. 
8. And when thou had sojourned in that city, for a season, living in the gratification of thy sensual appetites; lo! thou sailed to the island of Britain; and left Henry, to war with the people of the Provinces, who were as able to go forth to the battle, as when thou first came amongst them. 
9. This is the sum of thy victories, and the honour thou had acquired thereby, no man will wish to take away from thee. 
10. Hadst: thou stayed in the island of Britain, happy would it have been for thy same, and the page of the historian would not have been sullied, with those excesses that were committed during the exercise of thy power, and which thou shouldst have prevented. 
11. Now William, before his departure from the land of Columbia, sent some of the armed ships to destroy certain vessels that belonged to the people of the Provinces, that had fled up the river. 
12. And the armed ships moved along upon the face of the water, and they passed by the city of Burlington that ancient city! 
13. It was built upon the borders of the river, even the great river Delaware, and James, one of the princes of the Provinces dwelt in the city : he was a notable counsellor, and expounded the law to the people. 
14. The inhabitants of the city were kindly affectionate to each other, the way-faring man partook of their bounty, and they suffered not the stranger to perish in their streets; 
15. So that it became a proverbial saying in the land of Columbia, nearly on this wise: Lo! the inhabitants of Burlington are given to hospitality. 
1 6. The scribe who recordeth these things, is a living witness to the truth thereof, and his record is true; for he was a stranger from a far country in the days of his youth : 
I J. And he came to the city of Burlington, and the inhabitants thereof entreated him kindly; and John, who was by occupation a tanner, took him into his house, and he sojourned with him many days. 
i8» Now this John was one of the elders of the city, and an honourable man; he had many sons and daughters. 
19. But alas! many of the elders are removed, and know their places no more; their habitations are filled with strangers, and those who knew them not, occupy their pleasant places. 
20 Now perhaps some will say. Why doth the scribe tell us of these things ? or, What is it to us, if all the inhabitants of that city are given to hospitality ? 
2 1. Be not offended, O ye simple ones! neither let envy take hold on your minds : it is the tribute of gratitude, and without gratitude, what is man ? is he not worse than a brute ? and the envious man is no better than he. 
22. For envy biteth like the rattlesnake that lieth concealed in the forest, and their poison is alike fatal; the one destroyeth the body, and the other the noble virtues, that dignify and adorn the sons of men, 
23. Such are the fruits of envy! it feedeth on the wormwood and the gall, and nothing is pleasant to the taste; shun therefore the least appearance thereof, lest it deprive thee of the pleasant flowers that yet remain in the garden of life, to cheer the heart of man in his passage through a thorny wilderness, replete with numberless dangers and consuming woe. 
24. And it came to pass, that the armed ships arrived where the vessels were anchored, that belonged to the people of the Provinces, even at Bordentown in the province of Jersey; returned to Philadelphia, the great City! 
25. Now certain sons of Belial from the province of Jersey, went into the city, and told William the chief captain, that the people of the province of Jersey, were gathered together under Joseph at the field of Haddon. 
26. And that they were a lett to the husbandmen, inasmuch as they would not suffer the fruits of the field to come to the city. 
27. And William was wrath, when he heard thereof; and he sent hastily for Abercrombie. and said unto him, Go now, and take the young men whom thou leadest forth to the war, and go to the field of Haddon, and slay those men who dare to rise up against the king, and oppose his servants. 
28. So will the husbandmen rejoice; and we will buy of them the fruits of the field, our gold and our silver will allure them to the city, for verily, they are weary of the money made by the great Sanhedrim, which is no better than filthy rags. 

C H A P. XXXVI. 

The light infantry land in the night, near Gloucester, on the Jersey shore, and proceed to Haddonfield. The militia, commanded by Colonel Ellis , have notice of their coming — they narrowly escape. 
Then Abercrombie gathered his young men together, and they were put into the boats that waited for them; and they rowed down the river, about twenty-four furlongs from the city; and landed in the province of Jersey, nigh unto the town of Gloucester; the. place where Joseph dwelt. 
2. And it was in the first watch of the night, when they landed; and they passed along the high-way, that leadeth from the town of Gloucester to the field of Haddon. 
3. The sound of their feet was not heard, as they journeyed along the way; for they had devised in their hearts, to surprise the men who were with Joseph, in their sleep. 
4. Howbeit, a young man of the province of Jersey, espied them; and he hastened and told Joseph, that mischief was intended against him, and the people who were with him. 
5. And Joseph called a council, and he communed with the chief men who were about him; and they all with one voice, thought it most expedient to depart thence, for they knew not the strength of the enemy. 
6. And it was so, that when the people of the province of Jersey, who followed after Joseph, had gotten to the one end of the field of Haddon; that Abercrombie, and his company, were at the other end thereof. 
7. And Abercrombie divided his company into two bands; one band took their way straight to the town; and the other company took a circuit, and came round by the house of Samuel, on Mount pleasant. 
8. And the two bands entered the town, that was built on the field of Haddon; and they brake the doors and windows, and terrified the inhabitants thereof. 
9. They had drank of the strong waters of Barbadoes, mixed with the black dust, and it made them furious; they made a hideous noise! they foamed at the mouth like the wild boars of the forest, when they are chased by the hunters! they were enraged because Joseph and his men had escaped. 
10. The cries of the women and children were heard afar off! the glittering of the instruments of war, added to their terror; they despaired of seeing the dawning of another day! 
11. Nevertheless, they were saved; and it was a deliverance that should not be forgotten. And when the sun arose, the soldiers departed; and came to the house of Samuel* that stood by the side of the river, opposite to the city : and the boats came to the shore and took them all in. 
12. And they took captive, Willaim, whose sur-name was Ellis; he was a useful man, and skilled in architecture; and a small number of the people of the province of Jersey, who were with him, were also taken captive. 
15. These were some of the last acts of William, the chief captain : and it was so, that he went into one of the tall ships of the king of Britain, and the people of the provinces saw him no more : and Henry, whose sur-name was Clinton, was made chief captain in his stead. 

CHAP. XXXVII. 

The news of the army under General Burgoyne, arrives in England; in consequence of which , the French Court acknowledge the Independence of the United States; and Dr. Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee, Esqrs, are treated with, as Commissioners. Lord North's conciliatory bill passes both houses of Parliament; is sent to America, and rejected by Congress, 
AND It came to pass, when tidings came to the king of Britain, and to the great Council of the kingdom; how that the Northern army was made captive by the people of the Provinces; their spirits sunk within them : astonishment seized the enemies of Columbia, they looked upon one another, and wist not what to say! 
2. The wisdom of the wise, was sealed up as in a bag; the eloquent orator, was like to a bottle filled with new wine, and had no vent; their visages were marred, and covered with wrinkles, and fierce wrath flushed from their eye-balls. 
3. The tables were turned upon them, their joy departed like a mist that hovereth on the top of the mountains, before the sun ariseth!
4. And hope, the last support of the wretched, the all-cheering companion of the child of woe, spread her downy pinions, fear'd at the frightful appearance of that monster, known amongst the sons and daughters of disobedience, whose name is dispair, the hideous offspring of guilt. 
5. Far otherwise, were the tidings received in the kingdom of Gaul; there was great rejoicing in the land; and the joy of the people, exceeded the joy of the vine-dressers, when the presses burst out with new wine. 
6. And the king spake, and said to his nobles, and his counsellors : " Lo now Benjamin, Silas, and Arthur , who were sent by the great Sanhedrim, from the land of Columbia, are yet in our realm, and we have  not attended to their mission.”
. 7 “ And now behold, the people of the  Provinces, have taken captive the Northern army; and it plainly appeareth unto us,  that they are able to do their own work; nevertheless, lest we offend them, and to prevent the breach from being made up between the king of Britain, and the people of the Provinces, we think it expedient  that the men be called into our presence. “
8. " And that we make a lasting covenant  with these people, and that we bind them to us in bands that cannot be broken; so will our ancient enemies, the men of Britain, be weakened, and their haughty spirits be humbled." 
9. And the sayings of the king pleased the people; and Benjamin, Silas, and Arthur, were forthwith brought into the presence of the king, and they did obeisance; and the king entreated them kindly, and they partook of his royal favor; and he made a covenant of peace with them, that was to continue to the end of many generations; and the covenant was signed, and the decree made known, on the sixth day of the eighth month, in the seventeen hundred seventy and eighth year of the Christian Hegira. 
10. But it came to pass, that when George the king, heard thereof, he was very wroth, and he made war upon the king of Gaul for this thing; because he had taken part with the people of the Provinces. 
11. Now the chief counsellor of the realm of Britain, determined to try soft words; seeing that the people of the Provinces, regarded not threatening speeches : but alas! it was too late, their confidence in the king and his chief servants, was destroyed. 
12. Hlowbeit, he brought certain written proposals into the great council, that seemed to speak peace and good-will to the people of the Provinces, and the great council approved thereof; and they were sealed with the great signet of the realm, and sent to the land of Columbia. 
13. And certain men were appointed to carry the proposals, who were called Commissioners; who, when they arrived on the coast of Columbia, they sent the proposals to the great Sanhedrim. 
14. And it was so, that when the princes of the Provinces, had read all that was contained in the written paper, and had consulted together, it was rejected by the whole assembly; for they cared not to put their trust in the king of Britain any more. 
15. And the commissioners seeing they were lightly esteemed by the great Sanhedrim, and their mission set at nought. 
1 6. Then they denounced vengeance against the inhabitants of the land; they put forth a decree in their wrath, and menaced destruction, in their hot displeasure. 
17. Furthermore, they spake and said, Lo!  the people of the provinces have made affinity with Louis, king of Gaul, and have  rejected George, from being king over them;  we will therefore make their country desolate, and lay waste their cities.*' 
18. Nevertheless, the princes of the Provinces, even the great Sanhedrim, were not moved to fear; well knowing that they had counted the cost, and were prepared to bear the portion of evil they could not prevent, 

CHAP. XXXVIIL 

The French equip a fleet , for the purpose of blocking up the English in the Delaware. Sir Henry Clinton, being timely informed of their intentions, escapes to New York; the land-forces march through the Jerseys. Battle of Monmouth. 
AND it came to pass, after that the king of Gaul had made a covenant with Benjamin, Silas and Arthur : 
2. That he commanded his sea-captains, to make ready a navy of ships; and take large store of the destroying engines, and other implements for war; and that they should make all speed, to sail for the land of Columbia, and help the people of the Provinces, against their mighty adversaries, the men of Britain. 
3. Then the sea-captains did according to all that the king commanded them; and they made ready the ships, and the mariners spread their sails to the wind, and hastily departed; because the king's command was urgent. 
4. Now the servants of the king of Gaul, hoped to have arrived on the coast of Columbia, before the ships of the king of Britain should escape out of the great river Delaware; and if it had been so, verily the ships and the host of Britain, would have been in great jeopardy. 
5. Howbeit, Henry, chief captain of the host of Britain, was told that the king of Gaul was meditating mischief against: him; moreover, he was commanded by the king of Britain to depart from Philadelphia, the chief city of the Provinces; lest peradventure, the servants of the king of Gaul, should come upon them unawares. 
6. Then Henry, chief captain of the host of Britain, privately commanded the chief men of the host to have all things in readiness. to be gone on a certain day; but inasmuch as he desired to keep the thing from being known to George, the chief captain, he kept the labourers at their work, as though he inclined to keep the city. 
7. And it came to pass, in the sixth month, on the eighteenth day of the month, and in the second year after the people of the Provinces had thrown off the yoke of George the king; that the host of Britain departed out of the city. 
8. And the ships also moved down the river; and the sect of the tories were astonished out of measure : inasmuch as they had hoped that their habitations in the city, and all their stuff would have been preserved, and the city possessed by the men of Britain, until George, the king, should reign and rule as in days past. 
9. And the host of Britain passed over the river into the province of Jersey, and they  journeyed onwards to the field of Haddon, and they encamped there that night, 
10. And George chief captain of the armies of Columbia, and all the armed men came to Princeton, in the province of Jersey, and there they pitched their tent. 
11. And George queried with the chief men of the host, saying, Shall we go forth and offer the men of Britain battle, or shall we forbear. 
12. And the men, even the captains of the host, answered and said, Not so : nevertheless let some of the people go forth and observe the enemy and fall upon the hinder part of the host. 
13. And it was so, that Scott a chief captain, and a valiant man, and about one thousand men of the host, went forth to view the army of Britain, that was spread over the province of Jersey, even as the grasshoppers in the vale for abundance. 
14, Now the men of Britain journeyed towards the sea coast, and they came to the town of Allen. 
15. And when George the chief captain heard thereof, he sent a valiant man, whose sur-name was Wayne, he was also a chief captain; and Robert, who was of the order of the priesthood, and who had received his ordination from the bishop of the city of Lud, expounded the law of Moses to the people; this man even Robert, journeyed with them and became their minister; he was no Pharisee, neither was he the son of a Pharisee, but the spirit of charity rested upon him. 
i6j And Fayett, the nobleman from the kingdom of Gaul, was also with them, and he commanded the foremost company. 
17. Now Lee, who had revolted from the king of Britain, and who had joined himself to the people of the Provinces, had been newly released from his captivity, for the men of Britain had taken him captive; as it is written in the nineteenth chapter of the Columbian Chronicle. 
18. This man had been appointed to command, and to lead the people forth against: the host of Britain, but inasmuch as he was not like minded with George, the chief captain, he inclined not to go forth. 
19. But it came to pass, when he saw that the people looked not towards him as in days past, he changed his mind and went out before the people. 
20. And on the morning of the next day, he was commanded to assault the enemy, and give them battle. 
21. And when Henry , chief captain of the host  of Britain, was told that the people of the Provinces were coming towards him, he sent the stores, the baggage, and all the stff that appertained to the host, away; and Knephausen, chief captain of the German soldiers, had charge thereof. 
22. Now Henry was troubled when he saw the people of the Provinces, inasmuch as he was persuaded they designed to sieze the  stores. 
23. Therefore, he led forth the choice men of Britain, and fearing that there would be a sore conflict, he sent for a large number of the soldiers that were with Kniphausen, the German captain, beside a company of horse- men, to strengthen his host. 
24. Then he led forth the men of war, and they moved towards the people of the Provinces, who followed after Lee, 
25. And it came to pass, when Lee saw into the design of the men of Britain, he sent a messenger to Scott, who had under him a large number of valiant men; and the words he put into the messenger's mouth, were nearly on this wise, saying : 
26. When thou comest to Scott, say thou unto him : thus saith Lee the captain, Tarry thou in yonder wood until I send thee word. 
27. And the messenger departed: howbeit, Scott perceiving that part of the host were in motion, and not knowing the cause thereof, he thought it expedient to remove; and Maxwell, a valiant man, and a chief officer in the host, followed after him; and the host of the people of the Provinces were confused.
28. And the men of Britain pursued after them, until they came to a town in the province of Jersey, and there the people halted to refresh themselves, for they were weary and faint with heat. 
29. And the chief captain, George, queried with Lee concerning the battle : now this Lee was a man of a haughty spirit, and he was offended at the words that proceeded out of the mouth of George, and he spake unadvisedly with his lips. 
30. But it was so, that after the men of war, even the host of the people of the Provinces, were refreshed, they took courage and assaulted the men of Britain. 
3 1. And when the battle waxed hot, George sent two captains with their companies, on the right and on the left of the host of Britain. 
32. But it came to pass, before they could get to the appointed place, the night approached, and the people betook themselves to rest. 
33. And George, the chief captain, wrapped his cloak about him, and reposed himself under a tree; and the warriors of the great Sanhedrim lay on the ground, round about him. 
34. Now there were slain and taken captive of the men of Britain, three hundred two score and ten persons, and two score and nineteen were found dead on the field of battle, on whose bodies were no wounds, but they perished with the heat; for it was in the midst of summer. 
35, And Monckton, a valiant man of the host of Britain, fell in the battle , and the host mourned for him with a great mourning; inasmuch as he was prudent in all matters relating to the war, and one of the chief warriors. 
36. And there were slain and wounded of the people of the Provinces, about two hundred two score and ten persons. 
37. Now it came to pass, while it was yet night, that the host of Britain departed, and stole away like men ashamed, and the people of the Provinces knew it not; and the host: came to a certain place called Sandy-hook, which is nigh unto the seacoast, and George pursued them not, for the people were very weary. 
38. Now as the host of Britain were passing through the province of Jersey, there fell away from the host first and last, about eight hundred of the German soldiers. 
39. Then after these things, Henry went over to the city of York, and all the people followed after him. 
40. And the people rejoiced, inasmuch as they had escaped from the host of Columbia, for they had learned to fear; neither did they deride the servants of the great Sanhedrim as at the beginning. 

CHAP. XXXIX. 

The French fleet arrive at the Delaware, and pursue the British fleet. Their design frustrated — disabled by a storm — rendezvous at Boston Action on Rhode Island. 

And it was so, that when the king of Gaul had fitted out a fleet of ships, he sent them to the land of Columbia to help the people of the Provinces, and to fight with the ships of the king of Britain. 
2, But it came to pass, that the navy of the king of Britain escaped out of the river. even the great river Delaware, a few days before the fleet of the king of Gaul arrived; and the servants of the king were vexed because of this thing. 
3. For verily, had the ships of the king of Britain remained until the arrival of their enemies, they would have been like unto a lion, when he is taken in the net of the hunters. 
4. Howbeit, the servants of the king of Gaul, pursued after the men of Britain, and the ships came before the harbor wherein the navy of Britain had taken shelter, even before the city of New-York. 
5. And when the servants of the king of Britain, even the mariners and all the valiant men, saw the ships of their enemies, they bestirred themselves; and encouraged one another, and there was great strife amongst the men of war, inasmueh as the whole multitude desired to go forth to the battle; it was the strife of honor, and was decided by lot. 
6. Nevertheless the ships of the king of Gaul were quiet, and remained eleven days without doing any thing against the ships of their enemies, and on the twelfth day they hoisted up their anchors, and steered their course to the island of Rhode. 
7. Now there was on the island, a garrison of soldiers, servants to the king of Britain; and it was determined by George, the chief captain of all the armies of Columbia, to take the garrison captives. 
8. But the enterprise failed, and the cause thereof was on this wise : for it came to pass, that the chief captain of the ships of the king of Britain, pursued after the ships of the king of Gaul; and it was even so, that as they were preparing for an assault, lo! A great storm arose and dispersed the ships. 
9. And the navy of Gaul was damaged, and suffered much by the storm, so that they were fain to flee to the town of Boston, to repair the ships that were hurt. 
10. Howbeit, there was a sharp conflict between the people of the Provinces who were on the island, and the soldiers of the garrison, and there fell down slain on each side, between two and three hundred men. 

CHAP. XL. 

Major General Grey, with a party of the British, surprise and put to death with their bayonets, nearly a whole regiment of American dragoons commanded by Col. Baylor, at Old Tapaan, 

NOW there was a man in the host of Britain, whose sur-name was Grey; he was a chief captain in the host, and he went forth to seek forage; and certain of the valiant men followed after him, and they went into the open country. 
2. And it was told a certain captain of the host of the people of the Provinces, how that the men of Britain were gone forth to forage and to distress the husbandmen. 
3. Then he gathered together a band of men, and they were gathered together : 
4. And the sur-name of the captain was Baylor; he commanded a company of horse-men : and they took their way towards a certain place, called in the vernacular tongue Old Tapaan; and being weary with hard travelling, they tarried there. 
5. And when it was night, and the horsemen were fallen asleep; lo! the men of Britain, who followed after Grey, fell suddenly upon them, and slew them with a great slaughter. 
6. Howbeit, a certain captain of the men of Britain, spared about forty persons, and they became captive to the men of Britain : he was not like unto Grey, the captain, for his bowels yearned towards the people, when they pleaded for their lives. 
7. O mercy, how amiable art thou at all  times! and what is the warrior without thee! is he not a barbarian ? a monster set loose to scourge the human race, on whom the creator hath set a mark, like he did on Cain, that all men may shun him as the destroyer. 
8. The glory of Britain passeth away like a shadow; her degenerate sons consume her fame; she is verily, like unto a harlot, whose virtue has vanished, and whose beauty is withered. 
9. O Albion, thou wast once the desire of all nations! thou sat as a queen in the midst of Europe! the mildness of thy laws were the admiration and envy of thy neighbours, and thy sons were honored in foreign lands. 
10. But now thou art lightly esteemed, and the people whom thou scornest are become mighty in power; yea, they say within themselves, the mighty are fallen! and by the strength of our arms, we have brought down the pride of Britain! her haughty spirit is humbled! the days of her triumphing is at an end. 
11, Say no more amongst yourselves, We will be avenged on such a nation; for lo! you could not stand before this people. 

CHAP. XLI. 

The British forces are successful under General Prevost, and colonel Campbell, and establish themselves in Savannah. 

AND it came to pass, about the end of the year, that there was war in the Southern Provinces, even in Georgia. 
2, And the men of Britain gathered themselves together under a certain captain, whose sur-name was Campbell; he was from the country of Caledonia, and a servant of the king cf Britain. 
3. And. the people of the Provinces were gathered together under Robert, who was a chief captain under the great Sanhedrim.
4. And he went forth before the people, to oppose the soldiers of Britain, and waited for them in the way. 
5. And when Campbell heard thereof, he sent a mighty man of valor, whose sur-name was Baird, and a company of soldiers went along with him. 
6. Now these men took a curcuit, and they had an Ethiopian for a guide; and when they had gotten to the place appointed them, then the men of Britain who were with Campbell the captain, rushed upon the people who were gathered together under Robert. 
7. And the people were discomfited, inasmuch as the men of Britain environed them round about; and there were slain of the people of the Provinces, about one hundred men, and four hundred and fifteen were made captives. 
8. Moreover, they took a strong hold, that was built upon the river, even the river Savannah, and two score and eight destroying engines, the ships and the merchandize furthermore, they took captive, one score and eighteen officers, and one score and three mortars, part of which were made of brass, and part of iron. 
9. The chief town of the province, and abundance of spoil, and large stlores of provision for the host; all these things did the men of Britain take in the space of a few hours. 
10. And after this, it came to pass, that a chief captain, whose sur-name was Prevost, and a large company of the servants of the king of Britain, joined the former company, and they became one band, and pitched their tents in that place. 
11. Then the people of the Provinces who had escaped from the battle, fled up the river and escaped, and many of them went to their own habitations; for their spirits were sunken, because of the men of Britain, 
12. And there was peace throughout the Province of Georgia; and the king's courts were set up as in time past; and there was rest and quietness in the land. 

CHAP. XLir. 

General Wayne's successful expedition at Stoney Point — the fort, after being in possession of the Americans a few days, is evacuated, and reposted by the British, 

THEN it came to pass, in the one thousand seven hundred and seventy-ninth year of the Christian Hegira, in the seventh month, and on the fifteenth day of the month; a chief captain of the host of Columbia, went against a strong hold, called by the people of the Provinces, Stoney Point. 
2. The name of the captain, was Wayne, he was one of the worthies who followed after George the chief captain, and his name was much set by. 
3. Now the hold was defended by valiant men, and no man could approach nigh there to, but with great jeopardy : Howbeit Wayne put his life in his hand, and the men who were with him, were men of valour. 
4. And it was about the eleventh hour of the night, when the people went against the hold to take it. 
5. And two small companies, twenty in each company, with their captains, Gibbons and Knox, went before the men of war; and these were called the forlorn hope, 
6. And it was so, as they came nigh unto the hold, the men of Britain shot at them from the walls, and seventeen of each company were slain. 
7. Nevertheless, Wayne and the men who were with him, rushed forwards, as a wide wasting stream, and gat into the hold, and the garrison beholding the valiant acts of the men of war, their spirits sunk within them. 
8. Then they delivered up the hold and all that was therein, unto the chief captain, Wayne, who took the garrison captive. 
9. And there were slain of the servants of the king, about three score and three persons, and five hundred and two score and three men, were made captives. 
10. And there fell of the people of the Provinces, about fourscore and eighteen valiant men. 
I T. And the great Sanhedrim honored the captains : moreover, they gave to each of them a medal, whereon was engraved, a curious device emblematical of their exploit. 
12. To Wayne, they gave a medal of fine gold curiously wrought; and to the other two captains, to each of them a silver one, wrought in like manner. 
1 3. Furthermore, they congratulated George, the chief captain, inasmuch as he by his wisdom, had projected the enterprise, and had the direction of the undertaking. 
14. And the armour-bearer of Wayne, was promoted to be a captain : but the people spared the garrison, and did not put them to death, as the men of Britain had done. 
15. And when tidings came to Henry, how that the strong hold was taken, he gathered together an army and came out to take it again, from the people of the Provinces. 
1 5. But when George heard thereof, he thought it not convenient to defend the hold, inasinuch, as it would cost the lives of many men, and the hold was not so desirable a possession as to make it worth the life of one of the people. 
17. So the people were commanded to depart from thence, after they had destroyed the works, and removed the implements of war, and all the stuff that was therein. 
18, And Henry, who was the king's chief captain, took the hold on the third day after that the people of the Provinces had gotten possession thereof. 

CHAP. XLTIL 

Spain declares war against Great Britain, Proceedings of the British in Carolina, 

IN the sixth month, on the sixteenth day of the month, the king of Spain joined himself to the enemies of the king of Britain. 
2. For the servants of George the king had in a former war, taken a strong hold from the Spanish king, the name thereof was Gibralter. 
3. It was situated near the sea, and was a desirable place, inasmuch as no ship could pass, without first obtaining permission of the  governor of the garrison. 
4. Moreover it was built upon a rock, that looked towards the four corners of the earth, to the North and to the South to the East and to the West. 
5. And the king of Spain beheld the hold with an envious eye, inasmuch as it was near unto his kingdom, and had been taken from him by the servants of George the king, at unawares. 
6. So he brought a strong army against: it, even a very great multitude, and he planted batteries against it, and essayed to beat down the walls thereof, but he could not prevail; for the hold was very strong, and valiant men defended the place, and shot down the servants of the king from the battlements thereof. 
7. Moreover the servants of the king of Gaul, even a mighty army came against the hold, and joined themselves to the servants of the king of Spain; the bellowing of the destroying engines, was such as had not been known in the reign of George the king, nor in the reign of his father, nor his father's father.
8. And the governor, whose sur-name was Elliot, and all the soldiers in the hold, gat great honor; the servants of the two kings, failed to accomplish their enterprise, but were cast: down in their minds, as thou mayest read in the book of Ramsay the scribe, and also in the book of the siege, written by an officer of the garrison. 
9. For the scribe holdeth it not expedient at this time, to record the acts of nations who were at war with the king of Britain, save only the people of the Provinces, with whom he hath sojourned from the days of his youth, 
10. Know then, that the great Sanhedrim, being mindful of their brethren in the Southern Provinces, appointed Lincoln to be chief captain, who was to order the battle against the men of Britain, and to lead forth the people of the Provinces against them.
11. He was a valiant man, and dwelt in the Southern province, called Carolina, and the chief city of the province was named Charlestown. 
1 2. This province was the Columbian Aceldema21 rage and revenge twin monsters from the infernal regions, stalked from house to house! and from cottage to cottage! 
13. Their voracious jaws distilled human gore! and their impious hands were besmear'd with the blood of thousands! 
14. Mercy! the darling offspring of heaven! the friend of man! beheld with a glistening eye their destructive progress, and dropt a tear for the madness and folly of man! 
15. Disgusted with scenes of cruelty and bloodshed, she flew to the bright courts of her father, where she bewailed in secret the dire effects of deistructive war! 
1 6. Here those who were brethren, the sons of one mother, strove together in the field! neighbour made war upon neighbour! and those who had been united by the strong bands of friendship, slew each other! yea, they watched by the way-side, as the panther watcheth for the fawn in the forest! 
17. Nevertheless, they called themselves the disciples of the great Prophet and Founder of the Chrislian fect; who is called in the Latin tongue « Jesu Christi Salvator Hominem;" and who said to his followers, “Resist not evil, and love your enemies." 
18. " My soul, come not thou within their secrets, unto their assemblies, mine honor, be not thou united; so shalt thou be at peace, and thy reward shall be sure.” 
19. The storms-and tempests that overtake the intemperate, shall not come near thee; thou shalt enjoy with rapture the feast: of reason, if thy feet turn not aside from the paths of rectitude. 
20. Wsdom shall dwell with thee, she shall make thee acquainted with thy divine origin, she will shew thee what a wonderful thing is man! " How noble in reason! how excellent in faculties! in form and moving, how express and admirable! in action, how like an angel! in apprehension, how like a God! The wonder of angels, the paragon of animals!”

CHAP. XLIV. 

Major Lee surprises the British garrison at Powles Hook, Unsuccessful expedition against Penobscott, 

NOW there was a certain young man from Virginia, and his name was Lee,
2. He was. a star of the first magnitude in the rising empire of Columbia, he was a chief among the warriors of the Provinces. 
3. His rising glory shone forth like the beams of the sun, his valiant acts eclipsed the fame of his companions; they beheld in him the Washington of a future day. 
4. And it came to pass, in the same year, in the sixth month, on the nineteenth day of the month, that the young man, even the young man Lee, went against a garrison of the men of Britain, at Powles Hook.

5. And there was but a small company with Lee, nevertheless they were valiant men, whose hearts were true, and whose Love for the great Sanhedrim was perfect. 
6. And the number of men who went against the garrison, were about three hundred two score and ten men. 
7. And lo! when they came against the garrison and assaulted it, the men of Britain fled; howbeit, one score and ten persons of the garrison were slain, and eight score were taken captives. 
8. This was one of the valiant acts of the young man Lee; and the princes of the Provinces honored him with many honors. 
9. Moreover, they gave him a medal of pure gold, of fine carved work, wrought by the hands of a cunning workman, that his children and his children's children to many generations, might know of his valiant acts, and emulate his same. 
10. But it came to pass, after these things, that the men of Britain, even a small company of them, were prosperous in another place, even at Penobscot; where they built a strong hold, and placed a garrison of soldiers therein and the name of the captain of the garrison, was Macleane, 
11. And when the people of the town of Boston, knew of a certainty that the men of Britain were strengthening themselves at Penobscot they were troubled. 
12. And they spake and said. Come let us go against the servants of the king of Britain, and chace them from our borders before they become too strong for us, (for the hold was not yet finished.) 
13. And the men of war gathered themselves together, and they prepared armed ships, and Saltonstall a mighty man of war, was captain of the ships; Lovel a man of that country, went forth before the men of war, 
14. And the people went forth willingly against the men of Britain, for their wrath burned against the king, even as the fire burneth upon the altar.. 
15. And when the captain of the garrison was told that the people of the Provinces were coming against him, he encouraged the men of the garrison to strengthen the hold. 
16. Howbeit, it was not finished when the people of the Provinces came against it; nevertheless Maclene the captain of the garrison, refused to deliver the hold to the people of the Provinces. 
17. And when they had fought against the hold for the space of fourteen days, and were weary because the men of Britain held it against them. 
18. Then the chief men of war amongst the people, consulted together, what they should do, and they said amongst themselves. Let us even now take the strong hold by force, and let the young men go forth in their might, and scale the walls thereof; so will the garrison be smittcn with fear, and we will take them captives. 
19. But it came to pass, that while the people were assembled together about this thing, lo! the tall ships of the king of Britain, appeared nigh unto the hold. 
20. Then were the people dismayed, inasmuch as they knew that the ships were strong and mighty, and that the destroying engines in the ships were many in number. 
21. And it was so, that the mariners in she king's ships, were too hard for the men of Boston, and they were fain to flee into the wilderness, and leave the ships a prey to the men of Britain. 
22. And the people went every man to his own place, and the garrison was saved, 

CHAP. XLV. 

Southern expeditions--General Prevost marches towards Charlestown, &c. 

NOW the war raged in many places in the land of Columbia : 
2. It is a mighty continent, and is bounded by the lands and seas near the Artic Pole, on the North; and by the Atlantic sea on the East; and by the Southern ocean on the South; and by the Pacific ocean, which divides it from Asia on the West; the length thereof, being between eight and nine thousand miles, from North to South; and about three thousand miles is the breadth thereof. 
3. It is a land which our fore- fathers knew not, even Solomon with all his wisdom was a stranger to it. 
4. The country was called Columbia, in similitude to the name of a famous sea captain, a native of Genoa, who through many perils arrived on the coast thereof, in the fourteen hundred and ninety- second year of the Christian Hegira, on the tenth month, on the seventeenth day of the month, was the land found out. 
5. And it came to pass, that the servants of the king of Britain in the Southern province, even in Georgia, moved towards Portroyal in Carolina, and landed on the island to take possession of it. 
6. But it came to pass, that Moultrie, a mighty man of war, drove them off the Island; and a great part of the of the officers amongst the men of Britain, were slain; the name of their captain was Gardiner; and the number of the men who followed after him, was about two hundred. 
7. And there fell of the people of the Provinces, eight persons, and the wounded were one score and two men. Now one of the persons who was slain, was Wilkins; he had charge of the destroying engines, and was beloved by the people; he was the father of several children, and was the first officer in the province, that was slain in the war with the men of Britain. 
8. Then the servants of the king of Britain pitched their tents at Ebenezer, and they sent messengers amongst the sect of the tories, and said : If now ye are the king's friends, why then do ye delay to shew yourselves men of truth, when the enemies of the king are yet in your borders ? Thus did the men of Britain stir up the sect of the tories to fight against their brethren. 
9. And when the tories had heard all the words of the messengers, they came out of their lurking places and armed themselves, and set out to strengthen the men of Britain. 
10. And as they passed through the country, they plundered the inhabitants and spoiled their goods. 
11. Whereupon the people being enraged, they gathered themselves together and pursued after them, and a certain man whose surname was Pickens, went before them. 
12. And they overtook the sect of the tories at a brook of water, called Kettle Creek; and they slew two score of them, and recovered the spoil, and their chief man was slain, whose name was Boyd. 
X3. And the residue were discomfited and fled to their own houses, and the people of the Provinces hanged five of them on a tree, even as a shepherd hangeth a dog for worrying the sheep. 
14. Now the servants of the king of Britain were encamped on one side of the river Savannah, and the people of the Provinces under Lincoln, a chief captain, were on the other side thereof, even at the Black Swamp opposite to Augusta. 
15. And Lincoln sent a chief captain whose name was Ash, and fifteen hundred of the servants of the great Sanhedrim, passed over the river, and they encamped at Briar Creek. 
16. But it came to pass that Prevost, captain of the servants of the king of Britain, came upon them at unawares, and many of them fled; and seven score and fifty of the people were slain, and one hundred and sixty-two were taken captive. 
1 7. And Moultrie, knowing of a certainty that the men of Britain were strong and many, he retired from them. 
3 8. Then Lincoln the chief captain, sent three hundred of the men who followed after him, to help the people who were with Moultrie, 
19. But the greater part of the people followed after Lincoln, who was minded to go to the chief town of the Province of Georgia. 
20. But when he was told that Prevost the chief captain of the king's servants, was on his way to the chief town in the province of the South, then he pursued after him, even to Charlestown. 
21. Now the men of Britain took the highway along the sea-coast, and Moultrie and the men who were with him, retired from the servants of the king. 
22. And the men of Britain went on their way and the inhabitants of the town made haste to strengthen themselves, and they built battlements round about, and planted the destroying engines thereon. 
23. And there were gathered together in the town, three thousand and three hundred men; who were all true men and servants to the great Sanhedrim. 

C H A P. XLVL 

General Prevost before Charlestown — Sundry Propositions rejected by the British; who being informed of the approach of the Americans, fled off  towards the Islands near the sea. 

AND as Prevost the chief captain, came nigh unto the town, the inhabitants and the men of war consulted amongst themselves, in what manner they should receive the men of Britain. 
2.. And they sent messengers to Prevost, and offered in the name of the inhabitants of the province, to remain quiet, and wait the issue of the war between the king of Britain, and the people of the Provinces. 
3. And they spake and sald : If the king of Britain should prove too strong for the people of the Provinces, then we will be subject to the king; but if the people of the Provinces should prove too strong for the king of Britain, then we will serve the great Sanhedrim, and be as the rest of the Provinces. 
4. Howbeit, Prevost would hearken to none of these things, but commanded that the men in the town should deliver themselves captives to the servants of the king of Britain. 
5. Notwithstanding, when Prevost was told that Lincoln was nigh at hand, and a large company with him, he departed from the town to the sea-coast, not very far from the town. 
6. And there they pitched their tents; and the people of the Provinces, under Lincoln , also pitched their tents nigh unto the men of Britain. 
7. And it came to pass, in the sixth month, on the twentieth day of the month; that about twelve hundred of the people of the Provinces, attacked about seven hundred of the men of Britain at Stono Ferry. 
8. And the men of Britain were very strong, for they had cast up banks to secure themselves against their enemies; and the battle continued for the space of one and twenty minutes, and there were slain and wounded of the people of the Provinces, seven score and ten persons. 
9. And Roberts a mighty man of valor, was slain; he was from the country of Albion, and helped the people against the servants of the king; he had been a warrior in the land of his nativity, in the days of his youth. 
10. Then many of the people were discomfited and grew weary of the war, and went to their own houses, and followed after Lincoln the chief captain no more. 
11. And the men of Britain, they also departed, and halted not until they came to Port- Royal, where they left a garrison; and the captain of the garrison was named Maitland] 
12. The residue journeyed on their way until they came to Savannah, the place of their encampment. 
13. Now they plundered the inhabitants, and gat much spoil; howbeit, it was not much to their honour, and the people of the land eyed them with an evil eye. 

CHAP. XL VII. 

Count D'Estaing arrives on the coast — Unsuccessful expedition of the French and Americans against Savannah. 

NOW it came to pass, that D'Estaing, chief captain of the navy of the king of Gaul, came with the king's ships into the river Savannah, to help the people of the Provinces to drive the men of Britain from the southern province, even from Georgia. 
2. And the ships cast anchor in the river, nigh unto the strong hold which the men of Britain occupied; moreover, they blocked up the harbour so that no ship could pass in or out, except those to whom the chief captain gave permission. 
3. Now there were in the river, four ships that belonged to the king of Britain; and James a famous, sea-captain and servant to the king of Britain, was the commander of the ships. 
4. And it was so, that the ships and all their tackling, fell a prey into the hands of D'Estaing.
5. And when the people of the Provinces, heard that D'Estaing had come into the river with a large company of soldiers and mariners, to fight against the garrison and to take it, 
6. Then they rejoiced with an exceeding great joy, and they said amongst themselves, Verily the men of Britain arc entrapt, and we will take them even as partriges are taken in a net. 
7. For will they not be enclosed round about, even by the waters of the river, and the king's ships, on the one side, and by a mighty army on the other side; so we will enter into their strong places, and the hearts of their valiant men will melt like wax, when it is spread before sore the fire. 
8. Then there will be rest in our land, and every man shall set under the shade of his own forest, as in days past, and the shouting of the warrior shall be turned into melody, and songs of gladness shall be heard in the groves. 
9. The affrighted virgins shall return to their cottages, they shall gather together at the close of the day, when they rest from their labour, and tell to each other the valiant acts of their beloveds. 
10. Thus did the people encourage each other; for they looked on the men of Britain, even as the eagle looketh upon the fawn that sleepeth upon the sides of the mountains of Alleghany. 
11. They came forth in troops, and joined themselves to the servants of the king of Gaul, they esteemed it but a light thing to force their strong holds, inasmuch as their courage was revived by the arrival of the ships. 
12. Now when D'Estaing was before the hold, and before the people of the Province, under Lincoln had arrived, he commanded Prevost, the captain of the garrison, to deliver up the hold to the king his master. 
1 3. Now Prevost answered D'Estaing warily, and the words that he spake were words of subtility and D'Estaing was beguiled thereby. 
14. For Prevost spake after this manner, saying : Speak clearly now to thy servant and plain, that I may understand; so will I send an answer back to thee, touching all those things, whereof thou hast signified thy pleasure. 
15. Then D'Estaing answered and said : It is not for me O ye men of Britain! it is not for me to propose terms to you. Is it not the part of the besieged to propose such matters ? send therefore in time, before the destroying engines begin to cast forth their thunders. 
16. Now Prevost wanted only to gain time, for he expected to be strengthened by a large company of the soldiers of Britain, from Beaufort, who were commanded by a valiant man, whose sur- name was Maitland. 
17. Then Prevost the captain of the garrisons, spake smooth words unto D'Estaing, and said : Suffer thy servant, I pray thee, to have time to consider of a suitable answer to send, and that I may consult with the men of war about this matter, and let the destroying engines cease to utter their thunders; for verily thou knowest, that the thoughts of the heart are confused thereby. 
18. Then D',Estaing answered and said : Speak now to me, and say how long wilt thou, that I wait for thy answer ? 
19. Then said Prevost, the captain of the king's garrison : If thou wilt grant to thy servants twenty and four hours, then will we return an answer to all that thou hast proposed. 
20. And D'Estaing hearkened unto the words of Prevost, for he knew not that he spake the words of subtility; and he granted the petition of the garrison. 
21 And it came to pass, that before the end of the given time, that Maitland, and the soldiers of the king of Britain, gat safe into the hold; and the men of war shouted with a great shout, 
22. And on the evening of the same day, the army of the people of the Provinces, under Lincoln, and the army of the king of Gaul, were joined together, and became one band. 
23. And they besieged the hold, and raised banks against it, and they planted the destroying engines on the banks which they had cast up. 
24 And the men of the garrison strengthened the hold, and several hundred of Ethiopians were employed to work day and night under the direction of a man well skilled in such matters, whose sur-name was Moncrief.. 
25. Now when the destroying engines began to utter their thunders, Prevost the servant of the king of Britain, and chief captain of the garrison, sent out a messenger to request permission for all the women and children to have liberty to go out of the hold. 
26. Howbeit, the chief captains, D'Estaing and Lincoln, refused to grant his request, only inasmnch as they suspected that Prevost only intended to deceive them, as he had shewn himself to be a crafty man at the beginning. 
27. Moreover, they expected the hold would be given up in a shorter time, if the women and children were confined therein, and that the captain made a shew of pity, to lengthn out the siege. 
2S. But it came to pass, that the chief engineers were consulted about the events of the siege; who reported to the chief captains, that the hold was too strong to be taken in that way, but with great loss of time. 
29. It was therefore concluded, to scale the walls thereof, and to storm the battlements. 
30. And on the ninth day of the tenth month, in the one thousand seven hundred and eighty - ninth year of the Christian Hegira, was the two armies gathered together; even the army of the king of Gaul, and the host of the people of the Provinces. 
3 1. The soldiers of the king of Gaul were in number three thousand five hundred fighting men; and of the servants of the great Sanhedrim, six hundred valiant men, and three hundred two score and ten persons from Charlestown, who went willingly to the battle. 
32. They went on towards the hold like lions, and like fierce lions they rushed on their enemies! 
33. But it came to pass, that the men in the hold stood ready every man with his weapons of war; and the destroying engines belched out their thunders, and cast down many to the earth! 
34. And the men of war were fain to give ground, and fled from the fury of the destroying engines; and the men of the garrison got great honor. 
35, And there were slain and wounded of the servants of the king of Gaul, six hundred one score and seventeen men; and of the people of the Provinces, two hundred. Polaski, a notable warrior, was wounded even unto death. 
36, Now the number of the men in the garrison, was about three thousand, who were mighty men of valor; and not many of them were slain, inasmuch as they were in a place cf defence, and secure from the assaults of their enemies. 

C H A P. XLVill. 

Subsequent operations to the Southward, General Clinton besieges Charlestown, General Lincoln capitulates, &c, 

NOW when it was told to Clinton, chief captain of the men of Britain, who were warring with the people of the Provinces in the land of Columbia, that D'Estaing was beaten in battle, and had left the coast. 
2.. Then he prepared to go to the Southern Provinces, and renew the war in those parts : for he thrilled after honor, and the renown of the warrior was precious in his sight. 
3 Therefore he gathered together a choice company, and put them into the ships of the king his master j and Arbulhnet was captain of the shiips. 
4. And he left Kniphausen to be captain in his stead, in the city of New York. 
5, Then the ships, with the armed men; and great store of implements for war, launched forth into the great deep. 
6. Now the voyage was perilous and they were in great danger, and the horses designed for the war were lost, and many of the destroying engines; nevertheless, the men got safe to land. 
7. In the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty, in the second month, on the eleyenth day of the month, did the men of Britain land; and the place where they landed, was about two hundred and forty furlongs from Charlestown, the chief city of the South province, called Carolina. 
8. And they pitched their tents on John'g Island, at Stono ferry; and not many days afterwards, they gained possession of James' Island, and a certain place called in the language of that country, Wappoo Cut. 
9. Then they pitched their tents on the banks of the river, even Ashley river, opposite to the city. 
10. Now the governor of the province, whose name was Rutledge, commanded all the people to come forth against: their mighty adversaries, the men of Britain. 
11. Howbeit, they were not mindful to obey the governor; for the spirits of the people were quenched, they remembered the battle at Savannah, and fear took hold of their minds. 
12. Nevertheless, the people who were in the town, behaved themselves valiantly, and toiled hard to strengthen the town; and Lincoln was over the men of war. 
13. And the men of Britain were strengthened by twelve hundred men from Savannah, and they besieged the city round about. 
14. And they cast up banks against the city, and prepared to batter the walls thereof; and the town's men also made ready for the battle. 
15. And the ships of the king moved up the river, and as they passed by the Island of Sullivan, Pinckney, a captain and a valiant man, shot at the ships and they were marred. 
36. And it came to pass, in the fourth month, on the twentieth day of the month; that Clinton, the king's captain, was strengthened by three thousand men, from the city of York. 
17. Therefore, on the morning of the next day, the men of war, even the chief men in the town consulted together, and sent a messenger to Clinton the king's captain, with certain proposals. 
18. But he would not hearken to the words of the messenger, for he supposed that he should shortly take the city and all that was therein. 
19. Then the people who were with Lincoln fought valiantly, and shot at the men of Britain from the battlements, and from the walls of the city; and moreover they hoped that their brethren in the Provinces would come to their help.

20. But when all hopes were fled, and the men of Britain were preparing to assault the town; the men of war who were therein, judged it to be most expedient to hearken to the words of Clinton the king's captain, for they could not long withstand the force of the destroying engines, which cast out of their mouths fearful things, and horrible to name! 
21. They were called bombs, and were made of iron; they fell into the town, they burst asunder, and the broken pieces thereof flew about the streets of the city : and woe unto that man that was smitten by them! Yea verily, for they marred whatsoever they touched, and respected not the person of any.! 
22. And in the fifth month, on the eleventh day of the month, the city was delivered up to the men of Britain; and the men of war that were therein, became captives to the men of Britain. 
23. And on the morning of the next day, Leslie, a captain and servant of the king of Britain, took possession of the town. 
24. Now the slain and wounded of the men of Britain, were two hundred three score and five persons; and of the people of the Provinces, about the same number. 
25. And the number of the captives taken in the town, were five thousand men; howbeit, the soldiers of the garrison were only two thousand five hundred : and amongst: the captives, were a large number of the chief men of the Province; and four hundred of the destroying engines were taken. 

CHAP. XLIX. 

Subsequent operations in South Carolina, 1780. 

AND it came to pass, in the fifth month, on the twenty-second day of the month, that Clinton sent forth a decree throughout all the Southern provinces. 
2. And the writing of the decree was made known to all the people; and the substance of the decree was on this wise : 
3. That inasmuch as the servants of the great king, the king of Britain, have overcome all those who rose up against: him; 
4. Therefore, be it known unto all people, unto whom this decree shall come as well the inhabitants of the cities as of the forests, 
5. That from and after the date hereof, if any one shall be found to disobey the commands of the king, or oppose his princely power, either in word or deed; 
6. Their houses shall be taken from them, their lands and their flocks shall become a prey to the servants of the king; and they shall be accounted as aliens and enemies to his royal house, and be deprived from beholding the smiles of his benign countenance. 
7. Furthermore, if there are any yet remaining in these Provinces, who have committed grievous sins against: the person or laws of this great king, whose power is unbounded, and whose mercy is great towards the disobedient; 
8. Let them instantly come into our presence and confess their crimes, and the royal sceptre shall be extended towards them, and their rebellion will be blotted out of the king's book, 
9. And they shall be, called the king's friends, and be promoted to honor; yea, they shall have a name amongst his chief servants. 
10. Now the men of Britain were lifted up in their minds, for they supposed that the spirit of rebellion was quenched in the Southern Provinces, and that the people were subdued. 
11. Howbeit, fearing lest their brethren from the other provinces, would come and stir them up to rebel, they placed garrisons of soldiers in many places in the province. 
12. Then Clinton the king's captain, left the province, and went back again to the city of York, and great part of the host went with him; howbeit, he left four thousand valiant men, to keep the Southern province; and Cornwallis was chief captain over the men of war. 
13. Now, though the inhabitants were humbled, and the fear of the men of Britain weighed down their spirits, nevertheless, they secretly desired their overthrow. 
14. And they communed together in secret, and encouraged one another to hope that they were not forgotten by the great Sanhedrim; , 
15. Now there was a valiant man of that country, who had not submitted to the servants of the king; he was as a thorn in the sides of the men of war, and his name was Sumpter.
16. Marion, also was next unto him, and was valiant in battle : these two men were like hornets; they let the men of Britain have no rest all the while they remained in the province. 
17. They frequently came upon them at unawares, and surprised them in their places of defence. 
18. Succeeding generations will hear of their same, and rejoice, and their valiant acts will be known in different kingdoms; strangers shall praise, them in the streets of the city; their names shall be mentioned amongst the valiant of the earth; even as the worthies of David, are mentioned in the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of lsrael. 

C H A P. L. 

The Battle of Camden successful on the part of the British, 1780 

NOW the princes of the Provinces, even the great Sanhedrim, were troubled at the tidings from the Southern province. 
2. And they consulted together, how they should help their brethren who were oppressed by the servants of the king of Britain. 
3. And it came to pass. that they case theit eyes on Horatio  remembering his valiant acs, and how he took captive the Northern army. 
4. And when a convenient time was come, they appointed Horatio to lead forth an army to oppose the men of Britain in the Southern province, even in Carolina. 
5. And Horatio and the men who followed after him, journeyed forwards, and came to a place, the name thereof was Clermont; and he published a decree in the name of the great Sanhedrim, wherein he invited the people of the province to join themselves to the host of Columbia, who were come to drive the servants of the king from their borders. 
6. And it was so, that a great multitude flocked to the banners of the great Sanhedrim; and the number of the people who were with Horatio, was about four thousand men. 
7. Nevertheless, there were amongst them only nine hundred fighting men, and three score and ten horse men; the residue of the host were called militia, who were not to be depended upon in the day of battle. 
8. And when Cornwallis knew of a certainty that Horatio was coming to offer him battle, he hastened to meet him, and about one thousand and seven hundred footmen, and three hundred horsemen followed after him. 
9. And they came to Camden, nigh where Horatio was encamped, in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month; and when the sun was set, the army of Britain went forth to fall upon the people of the Provinces, in their camp at Clermont, 
10. On the same night did Horatio go forth, and the host of the people followed after him; and it came to pass, that they were met by the servants of the king of Britain, and Armand, a chief captain of the army, and who led the horsemen, was assaulted by the horsemen of Britain, and the men who weere with Armand were discomfited and fled. 
11. Then were the men of war confused, and wist not what they should do : howbeit, the people were brought into right order and kept their places; nevertheless, a valiant man, in whom Horatio put great confidence, was slain. 
12. And when the dawning of the next day appeared, there was a very fierce battle; and it came to pass, that the men from Virginia, even the militia of that province were terrified, and fled from the men of Britain, who rushed upon them as the horse rusheth into the battle. 
13. The militia also from the province of North Carolina, they fled from the men of Britain : howbeit, the people of the Provinces who were fighting on the right of the host, behaved valiantly. 
14. Nevertheless, they were fain to give place to the soldiers of Britain, who drave them from off the field of battle, and pursued them upon swift horses, and the captain of the horsemen was named Tarleton, 
15. Now there was a foreigner who had joined himself to the people of the Provinces, and was skilful in war; he was next to Horatio, he was titled a Baron, and his name was Kalb; this man was sore wounded and taken captive, and the next day he died, for his wounds were grievous; and the princes of the Provinces ordered a monument to be erected to commemorate his worthy acts. 
16. And the men of Britain took from Horatio eight of the destroying engines, and of carriages, two hundred, and great store of goods and stuff for the host. 
17. And many men were wounded and slain in the battle: and after these things, many of the people of the Provinces fell away to the men of Britain, for they were restrained by fear from helping their brethren any more. 
18. Now, when tidings came to the king's chief counsellors, that the people of the Provinces were smitten before the servants of the king, they were very joyful, and they praised Cornwallis the captain; and they prepared to strengthen themselves yet more and more. 
19. Verily they were like unto men who are in danger of drowning in deep waters, who seeing the small branches of the willow floating upon the surface, they hastily grasp them, and their hopes perish. 

CHAP. LI. 

Major Ferguson of the 71st. Regiment, an active partisan, stimulates the disaffected to take up arms in support of the British government—, a great number of this description embodies, and after an obstinate resistance are defeated—, Ferguson is slain, and the residue made prisoners, 

A HERE was a man in the army of Britain, who was zealous to serve the king, and he was a valiant man; he stirred up the people to join the men of Britain against the people, even against the servants of the great Sanhedrim. 
2. And he went to the dwelling places of the sect of the tories, and encouraged them to fight under the banner of George the king, and to make war upon their brethren. 
3. And there were gathered together, a large company of the sect: of the tories, under Ferguson, and they were encamped on King's Mountain, and they were encouraged by the servants of the king of Britain. 
4. And it came to pass, that when it was known unto the people of the Provinces, that the sect of the tories were encamped on King's Mountain, and that they were encouraged by the servants of the king of Britain : 
5. Then was the wrath of the five chief men kindled against the sect of the tories, and against the servants of the king, was their wrath kindled. 
6, And they gathered together an army of men, who went forth against the sect of the tories, who were encamped on King's Mount , and the names of the five chief men, were Campbell, Cleveland, Shelby, Servier, and McDowell; the first was from the province of North Carolina, and the rest were from the province of Virginia, where the sweet scented plant groweth, even as the cowslips groweth on the pastures of Albion, for abundance. 
7, And the sect of the tories were environed round about; and as the people of the Provinces ascended the mountain, they were driven back again by the sect of the tories : howbeit, they remained near the mountain, and shot at the people on the mountain, and Ferguson was slain, 
8, Then was the sect of the tories sore amazed, and their spirits failed within them when they saw their champion was slain, and they let fall their weapons of war, and they were all taken captive. 
9. And the number of the sect, of the tories who were taken captive, was about eight hundred men. 
10. And the slain and wounded were three hundred persons, and of the people of the Provinces there were not many slain. 
11. Howbeit, a valiant man whose surname was Williams, was slain; he was an enemy to the king, and fought to oppose to the utmost, the designs of the chief counsellor of the realm of Britain. 
12. And it was so, that when the sect of the tories had submitted, the people of the Provinces hanged ten men of them by the neck, and they were strangled with ropes made of the hempen weed, until they were dead. 
13. And when it was made known to Cornwallis that Ferguson slain, he was troubled; and leaving a few men at Camden, he fled to Wennsborough. Then the people in the Southern province who loved not the king, and who desired to change; 
14. They took courage, and gathered themselves together under Sumpter, who was made a chief captain by the great Sanhedrim, 
15. He concealed himself and his men, near the rivers, even the Broad river, the Tiger river, and the river Evorce. 
16. And they came out of their lurking places, and they fell upon the men of Britain at unawares : now this man, even Sumpter, was as a thorn in the sides of the servants of the king of Britain, and they feared to go forth in small companies. 

CHAP. LII 

General Arnold's treachery discovered. Andre taken and executed. 

AND it came to pass, in the one thousand seven hundred and eightieth year of the Christian Hegira, in the ninth month, on the twenty-first day of the month, that Satan entered the heart of Benedict. 
2. And he tempted him to deliver up the strong hold, of which George the chief captain, had made him governor, (even to the servants of the king of Britain;) for Henry the chief captain, had offered him large store of gold, and of silver; moreover, he promised he (would be a chief captain in the army of Britain. 
3. And Henry sent a young man whom he loved to manage this business with Benedict, and the young man's name was Andre; he was beloved by the host of Britain, and his name was much set by; he was a chief man in the host, and valiant in war, and where the brave were, there was he. 
4. And the young man, Andre , went into one of the small armed vessels, of the king of Britain, and the vessel moved up the North river, not many furlongs from the hold. 
5. And when the evening was far spent, Benedict sent a boat to the vessel, to bring the young man, Andre, to land. 
6. And when he was come safe to land, he consulted with Benedict: concerning all things whereof he had written to Henry, And the dawning of the day appeared, when they had ended their business. 
7. And when the young man would have gone back again to the vessel, lo! he had moved down the river; for the people of the Provinces had annoyed the vessel with some of the destroying engines; and the boatmen feared to row the boat to the vessel. 
. 8. And Benedict spake to Andre , nearly on this wise : Behold! now the vessel in which thou camest: is removed, and fear hath taken hold of the boatmen; therefore, it will be better for thee to tarry with me this night, and on the morrow, verily, thou shalt go on thy way, and some of the young men shall conduct thee to the city, 
9. So the young man, even Andre, tarried with Benedict; and fearing lest some of the people of the Provinces should take him for a servant of the king of Britain, he put off his soldier's apparel, and arrayed himself in plain clothing, and changed his name. 
10. And when a convenient time was come, he took his leave of Benedict who gave him a written paper, called by the people in those  days a pass; and it was so, when any of the people were shewn the written paper,  they suffered the man to hold on his way in peace. 
11. Then went Andre forth, and journeyed towards the city, even the city of New York. And as he was musing upon those things, about which Henry had sent him, lo! three men were a lett to him in the way. 
12. And the young man called out to the men, and queried with them, saying : From what part of the country are ye, and where is the place of your rest ? 
13. And the men answered and said : We are dwellers and inhabitants in the country before thee,- and we are servants to the king of Britain. Howbeit, they spake in the subtilty of their hearts. 
14. Then the young man rejoiced, and shewed not his pass, but said : Even as you are, so am I; my business is great, and requires haste, therefore stay me not for I am an officer of the king, and the chief captain hath need of me. 
15. Now Andre wist not that the men were enemies : howbeit, they laid hold on him, and took him to their captain; and they found written papers in the hand writing of Benedict and the plot was found out. 
16. Then the captain of the band sent the written papers that were found upon the young man, by a messenger, to George, the chief captain; and the young man, even the young man Andre, he also sent a letter to the chief captain; for he was a ready writer, and his words were enticing : the sound thereof, was as the sound of a well-tuned instrument. 
17. And Andre also sent a written letter to Benedict, and informed him that he was taken captive, and his journey frustrated. 
18. And when Benedict read the letter, his lips quivered, and he was sore amazed, and he hastily called for his young men who were faithful to him, and he gat into a boat, and the men rowed the boat to the armed vessel in which Andre had sailed from the city. 
19. Now when George, the chief captain, had received the letters, he was astonished; inasmuch, as he had surely believed, that Benedict was a true man, and immoveable as the rock on the seashore! For had not the princes of the Provinces dignified him with great honor ? inasmuch as he had shewn him-self a valiant man in battle. 
20. And George the chief captain, appointed a council of his chief men, even the chief captains of the host; and the young man, even Andre, was brought before the council. 
21. And when the council queried with him, concerning those things whereof he stood accused, he answered with dignity, composure, and truth; his magnanimity did not forsake him, in the hour of extremity. 
22. His Judges, charmed with his accomplishments, were willing to forget the foe, in the youthful warrior; they would gladly have found some other object, to sacrifice upon the altar of justice, and public opinion!
23. They regretted the fatal necessity of cutting off from society, in the prime of life, a youth, whose engaging behaviour had captivated their affections! A shining model of a11 that was excellent! A Christian; a gentleman, a scholar, a hero!
24. Here the scribe would willingly draw a veil over the closing scene! suffice it to say, that he died regretted by a host of foes; not personally so, but to the cause for which he fell.
25. Even the hardy veteran, whose nervous arm, had dealt death and destruction in the well fought field, felt the force of humanity; and the tear of sensibility trickled down his sun-burnt cheek!
26. Even the scribe, at this late hour, hath caught the soft contagion; and is not ashamed to acknowledge, that the fate of Andre entered deep into his soul.
22.Ye fair daughters of Albion! lay aside your ornaments, your silk and scarlet apparel; and put on mourning for Andre! The accomplished Andre is no more! 
	23  But in the midst of your sorrow, let this be your consolation : Andre died not as the fool dieth! Superior to the terrors of death, he beheld his last moments approach with decent fortitude, and a serene and pleasing countenance! Thousands and tens of thousands lament his early fall!
	24 This was the fatal fruit of treachery! O Benedict, how art thou fallen! The demons of destruction laugh at thy destruction and enjoy with malicious pleasure, the cosequences of thy fall!
	25 The monuments of thy victory on the plains of Saratoga, serve only to blaze forth the death of thy fame.
	26.  Thy name shall no more be mentioned in the songs of the virgins, nor shall the crown of honour encircle thy temples.
	27. Will not every one that meets thee, point with the finger, and say : Lo! There goeth the man who sacrificed his honour on the altar of mammon, and bartered away his good name for the sake of filthy lucre ?

CHAP. LIII.
General Green is appointed to the command of the Southern army in the room of General Gates' Successful expedition of Lieutenant Col Washington &c.
 IN the year of the Christian Hegira, one thousand seven hundred and eighty, in the sixth month, on the sixteenth day of the month, the residue of the army of Columbia in the Southern province, collected together at a certain place called Hilllborough, 
2  On the same day did Nathaniel take upon him the office of chief captain : for it came to pass, that when the great Sanhedrim had heard that Horatio and the Southern army, had been beaten by Cornwvallis, the king's captain, and that the warriors of Columbia could not stand before the men of Britain, they were sore displeased. 
3. And their countenances fell, and they, even the princes of the Provinces, secretly reproached Horatio; for it grieved them, that the army was smiiten before the men of Britain.
4. And they communed with George the chief captain, after this manner, saying : Knowest thou not, that Cornwallis the king's captain, hath beaten Horatio in battle, and that our brethren have fled from the servants of the king ?
5.And George said, yea verily, I know it : then the princes of the provinces, further more spake and said : It is expedient that we send another captain in the room of Horatio, that he may go forth before the men of war; so will the spirits of the people revive, and peradventure they will stand before their enemies. Speak therefore, all that is in thine heart, and say if thou knowest any man in the host of the people, that will answer the expectations and desire of the princes of the Provinces.
	6. Then answered George the chief captain, and said : there is a man in the army of Columbia, in whom is the spirit of wisdom and understanding, his name is Nathaniel; prudence walketh on his right hand, and integrity and perseverance are his constant companions.
	7. And the princes of the Provinces hearkened to the voice of the chief captain for they had determined beforehand, to remove Horatio; inasmuch as he had fled from the servants of the king, and his former services were not regarded.
8. Howbeit, Horatio was not cast down for these things; for the spirit of a man was in him, and wisdom fortified his mind against: the evils that were allotted to him.
9. He remembered that the celebrated Bard of Albion faid : " This is the state of  man :—To-day he puts forth the tender leaves of hope, to-morrow blossoms, and bears his blushing honours thick upon him  the third day comes a frost, a killing frost; and when he thinks, good easy man, full surely his greatness is a ripening—nips his  root, and then he falls!”
10. And it came to pass, that Nathaniel was appointed chief captain of the Southern army; and he set out on his journey, and came to Hillborough on the day of the month before-mentioned,
11. Now the. heart of Nathaniel was not lifted up because of this thing; inasmuch as Horatio, his brother in the war, was abased in the eyes of the people;.moreover he knew that Horatio was a valiant man, and he treated him with the respect due to an elder brother.
12  Furthermore, he justfied him in all companies; and in his letters to the princes of the Provinces, the members of the great Sanhedrim, he spake in praise of Horatio; and to them he said : In no part of his conduct, has Horatio been to blame, he has done his duty as chief captain, and verily no man can ensure to himself success; for victory is not at the command of the sons of men.
13, And it was so, that not many hours after that Nathaniel had assumed the command of the army, that a messenger came and brought tidings, that one of the Lieutenants from the Columbian army, had been out with a number of men to seek forage for the host,
14. And it came to pasthat as they journeyed along the way, they came nigh unto Clermont, the dwelling place of one of the fect of the tories who had joined himself to the king's servants, and was made a captain in the array of Britain.
15. Now there were about five score of the sect of the tories collected at the house, and they had strengthened themselves within and without; and they had made a place of defence called a Block-house, and a ditch enclosed it round about; so that it was very strong.
16. Notwithstanding, the lieutenant being a cunning man, and well knowing he could not get at the house except he had some of the destroying engines with him, therefore he went about to devise a cunning device.
17. He went into the forest of pines, and hewed down one of the tall trees thereof, and he fashioned it with the axe of the workman. Until he brought it to the likeness of one of the destroying engines, that were used to batter down the walls of strong holds, and the men stood ready, as they were wont to do when the engine is ready to vomit out its thunders.
18. And when the sect of the tories beheld the wooden engine, their countenances fell; for they knew the force of the engines, and that they could not withstand their enemies if they shiot at the house, therefore they delivered themselves to be captives, at the first summons.
19. And the soldiers, even the army of the people of the Provinces under Nathaniel, rejoiced, inasmuch as they judged it a sign of future success.
20. Now the number of men who followed after Nathaniel were about two thousand, and they were in distress; for the men of Britain occupied the country round about, and Nathaniel knew not how he should continue to supply the army with food.
21. For the army of the people of the Provinces, had no money, except the money of the great Sanhedrim, which was made of filthy rags, and the husband men loathed to see it.
22  The gold and the silver, which the servants of the king had in abundance; this it was that allured them! for this they sold the choice lambs from the flock, the bullocks and the fatted calves from the stalls, the principal wheat and the fine flour; yea, they ventured their lives in pursuit thereof.

C H A P. LIV.
General Green divides his force. The division under General Morgan goes to the Western extremity of South Carolina , defeats Tarleton at the Cowpens,

AND after these things it came to pass, that Nathaniel divided the host into two bands, one band was commanded by himself; and Morgan, a valiant man from the Southern province, went before the other band; and they journeyed West ward.
2. And. Nathaniel, with the residue of the host, also journeyed forwards until he came to the river, even the river Pedee, and he encamped on the North border thereof.
3. And Morgan and the men who were with him, arrived at the district of Ninety-six, where they pitched their tents.
4. And when it was told to Cornwallis that the people of the Provinces had made an eruption in that quarter, he sent Tarleton a man in whom he placed great confidence, to drive the people of the Provinces from thence.
5. And about eleven hundred of the choice warriors of Britain, followed after Tarleton and two of the destroying engines were with them. And the two armies came in sight of each other at the Cowpens, and they put the battle in array, army against army.
7. Now Tarleion despised all thoughts of delay, and the maxims of prudence he treated with contempt; but rushed forwards as to an assured victory, and at the first onset drave his enemies before him, for they could not with sland the first charge,
8. But it came to pass that two captains, renowned for warlike achievements, encouraged the men to turn about and face their enemies; and he who had taken the tories at the house, with the appearance of a wooden engine, this man turned the fortune of the day, by furiously charging a British captain, whose sur-name was Ogilvie^ whom he caused to flee before him.
9. And about the same time, a valiant man who was renowned in war, animated the men to turn about, who rushed upon the men of Britain and discomfited them.
10. So the warriors of Britain fled, even the horsemen thereof, and the destroying engines were taken; three hundred of the servants of the king were slain and wounded, and five hundred made captives, five score of warlike horses, carriages for the use of the host, one score and fifteen. These were all taken by the people of the Provinces, in the space of a few hours.
11. And the residue of the men of Britain who went out against Morgan the captain, fled to Cornwallis, and reported all the news of the Battle.
12. Then was Cornwallis exceeding wroth, inasmuch as he expected no such thing from a people whom he had despised, and had s lately vanquished.
13. Then he hastily collected his army together and went in pursuit of the people of the Provinces, under Morgan for he hoped to regain the captives.
14.  And when it was told Nathaniel that  the men of Britain were pursuing after the people, he left the place where he was encamped, and put the men of war under the guidance of a captain whose sur-name was Huger; but himself set out to join the army under the captain, Morgan.
15. And it was so, that the army of Britain hasted to pursue after the people of the  Provinces, and so hot was the pursuit, that the men of Britain came to the borders of the river Catawba, on the evening of the same day that the people of the Provinces had crossed over.
16. Now it came to pass, that when it was night, there was a storm, and the rains descended in great abundance, and the river was increased to a mighty stream; and the men, even the army of the people of the Provinces rejoiced, and considered the falling rain as the interposition of the Supreme Being,
17. And when the waters of the river were fallen, Cornwallis still continued to pursue after the people, and came to the river Yadkin, and at this place also he was fain to encamp, as the rain descended and swelled the river so that the army could not pass; howbeit, the host of Columbia had crossed the river, for it had not risen with the rain when they passed over.
18. Now while the men of Britain were detained on the other fide of the river, lo! The two bands of the host were united; thus the people of the provinces became one army, as at the first; howbeit they were not yet able to withstand the men of Britain.
19. Then the people of the Provinces who followed after Nathaniel moved forwards and eroded over the river Dan into the province of Virginia, and the men of Britain followed hard after them.
20. And Cornwallis the king's chief captain, encouraged the people of the province to come forth to the help of the king, and he caused the royal standard to be set up, that the people might flock to it, but they were weary,
21. He also sent Tarleton in whom he greatly confided, to assemble the sect of the tories who dwelt on the borders of the Deep river,
22. And when Nathaniel heard thereof, he sent two chosen men, whose sirnames were Pickens and Lee in pursuit of Tarleton and the men of Britain who were with him.
23. And it came to pass, as they were passing along, that they were met by about three hundred and fifty of the sect of the tones, and a man whose sirname was Pyles went before them.
24.  And the tories taking these men for servants of the king of Britain, saluted them  as friends; but they were soon slain by the horsemen under Lee and Pickens, and there was a great discomfiture; and the tories were sore amazed, inamuch as they regarded not their words, and flew them when they cried out " God save the king” And when Tarleton heard thereof, he fled back again to the main army, and on the way he flew several of the tories, whom he took to be friends to the great Sanhedrim.

CHAP. LV.
A reinforcement from Virginia, stimulates General Green to make a stand, against Cornwallis ~Is defeated, and retires to Speedwell Iron works, 

AND it came to pass, that four hundred men, whose hearts were warmed with the love of liberty, came from the province of Virginia, and from the adjoining province, even from North Carolina.
2. And they were led by two mighty men of valour : and also two whole brigades of militia. These came to the help of Nathaniel against: Cornwallis and the men of Britain.
3. Then Nathaniel gathered together his army, and it was gathered together; and they passed over the river, even the river Dan. Now the number of the men who went forth to fight with the men of Britain, were about four thousand four hundred; neverthess, many of these were husbandmen, and were unacquainted with battles, and had never seen the strife of the warriors.
4. And Cornwallis rejoiced when he saw the people of the Provinces coming against him, for he trusted in the valiant men of Britain, and to his skill in battle. Now the number of the fighting men with Cornwallis were two thousand four hundred; these were all men of valour and skilled in war.
5. And when they had put the battle in array, the men of Britain rushed forwards in three columns, and the foremost company  gave way; for it came to pass, that when the men of Britani were advancing, that a captain called out to another captain, saying : Take care lest the men of Britain surround thee!
6. And when the foremost company heard the words of the captain, they fainted in their minds and fled.
7 But all did not flee, as the first company did; but there were many fought with the men of Britain, even the men from Virginia, a country renowned for hospitality; these stood their ground and behaved themselves valiantly; they were led by a man on whom fear made no impression, his sirname was Stephens, who notwithstanding he was sore wounded, staid on the field of battle.
8. And the battle waxed hot, and continued for the space of one hour and thirty minutes; according to the great dial of Columbia, which is equal to the ancient dial of Ahaz, king of Israel.
9. Howbeit, the men of Britain gained the victory, but not without the loss of many valiant men who were slain in the battle; they had also to mourn for the loss of two valiant captains, moreover a chief captain was wounded.
10. And there were slain and wounded of the people of the Provinces, about four hundred persons, and a valiant captain was slain, whose sirname was Anderson, 
11. And the servants of the king took from Nathaniel four of the destroying engines.
12. And Nathaniel collected the remnant of the host, and fled to Speedwell, about eighty furlongs off, and there he pitched his tents.
13. Now Cornwallis boasted of the victory that he had gained, and sent forth a written paper, wherein he invited the inhabitants to join the servants of the king, promismg pardon and favour to such as had revolted from the king, if they had made their submission before the twentieth day of the next month; being the fourth month, in the year of the Christian Hegira, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-one.
14. Notwithstanding Cornwallis and the men of Britain, had gotten the victory of Nathaniel and the people of the Provinces; yet he was not easy, but was troubled in his mind.
15. Now there was an officer, and a servant of the king of Britain, who sojourned in Wilmington, a town in the Northern province, even in Carolina: this man was to have supplisd and assisted Cornwallis and the men of Britain, but the fear of the armed men of Columbia fell upon him, and prevented him.
16. So the army of Britain, were fain to depart, for they stood in need of those things that were at Wilmington : and the men of Britain journeyed forwards.
1 7. And when Nathaniel heard thereof he gathered together the men of war, and pursued after the host of Britain, until they had arrived at Ramsay's mill on the Deep river, and there the people of the Provinces halted.
18. And when the people were refreshed, the army of Britain took their way across the country from Wilmington to Petersburg, in Virginia.
1 9. And Nathaniel believing it would be most expedient, and withal, greatly to the benefit of the peoples to pass on directly for the Southern province; therefore being fully persuaded in his own mind, he ordered the men of war to direct their course to that province.
20. Howbeit, he sent a captain and horsemen to the chief captain at Marion, whose camp was on the banks of the river Santee : and the horsemen took their way to the camp at Marion; howbeit, it was a difficult way, and the journey was long and perilous; notwithstanding, they arrived at the camp on the Santee, in the space of eight days, and reported the words of the chief captain to Marion. 

21. Then Nathaniel departed from the Deep river, to go on his way to Camden in the Southern province. 
22. And it was so, that while Nathaniel was going on his way to the Southern province, that Marion and Lee with their companies, besieged a strong hold, occupied by the men of Britain. 
23. And they erected a bank against it, and shot at the men who were therein, so that they feared to shew their faces; for the men who were with Marion and Lee would shoot to a hair's breadth, they were chosen men of valour, and where the valiant were, there were they. And the men in the hold were taken captive- 

CHAP. LVI. 

General Green , with the American Southern army, encamp within a mile cf Camden, Lord Rawdon, with nine hundred men, are in Camden — They make a sally upon the American army, and gain the victory.

NOW it came to pass, that while Cornwallis was endeavouring to establish the king's friends and his laws, in the Province of Virginia, that Nathaniel came with the host of the people of the Provinces, and encamped about eight furlongs from Camden. 
2. And Rawdon, a lord of the realm of Britain, was in the town of Camden; and there were with him in the town, nine hundred of the choice warriors of Britain. 
3. And there were with Nathaniel, about twelve hundred men; howbeit, three hundred of these were husbandmen, called militia. 
4. And it was so, that as Nathaniel was waiting for the men of Britain to come out of the town, (for his fingers itched to be dealing with them) lo according to his desire, a messenger came and said : You men of Columbia, arm yourselves, for your enemies are at hand! 
5. Then the men of war made themselves ready, and Nathaniel animated with his voice the men of war. 
6. And it came to pass, that the men of Britain came on like the young lions of the forest! rhey tarried not, but rushed into the battle, and there was a fierce encounter, and the servants of the king prevailed.
7. For when the armies joined battle, two companies of the people of the Provinces fled, and the residue were confused because of this thing, and they fled also. 

8. Howbeit, Nathaniel  suffered not his spirits to fail; but he collected together the residue of the host, and encamped about forty furlongs off. 
9. And the men of Britain went back again into Camden. Now the people of the Provinces that fell in the battle, and were taken captive, were in number about two hundred and fifty persons. 
10. Now Nathaniel caused eight men to be hanged up by the neck, because they had left the army; now these men were called deserters; 
11. And Rawdon, the lord of the realm of Britain, not inclining to tarry any longer at Camden, he left it, and journeyed to the river Santee : howbeit he firss burned the prison, the mill for grinding the corn, and a number of the houses in the town, 
12. Now the enemies of the king of Britain, even the people of the Provinces, mightily increased in the Southern province; and they were fain to call in their men of war, who were in sundry strong holds in the province. 
13. The hold, called by the people of the Provinces, Fort Mott, surrendered to the chief captain, Sumpter : next unto that, was Fort Granby; this was a strong hold, and defended by three hundred, two score and twelve men, who gave themselves up to be captives to the valiant captain, Lee; and there was also with the captain, a young man from the province of Jersey, his name was James, he was like the wild colt of Arabia, and fear was a stranger to his heart. 
14. Thus the men of Britain lost: their posts and strong holds, in the space of a few days. 
15. And there was another strong hold called Silver Bluff: and the garrison were taken captive by the young men who followed after the captain, Lee; howbeit, Rudolph, a man of valour, led forth the last company, 
16. And there was yet another strong hold, called by the name of the British captain, this also fell to the people of the Provinces, under the captains Lee and Pickens; and the captives that were taken, were in number three hundred men, chiefly of the sect: of the tories. 
17. Thus were the men of Britain driven from one place to another, until they came to the Eutaw Springs, where they halted; and Nathaniel and the army of Columbia, they also encamped near the men of Britain. 
18. And Nathaniel numbered the men of Columbia, even the host of the people that followed after him, and the number of the men were two thousand fighting men. 
19. And it came to pass, that as some of the young men went forth from the host, towards the army of Britain, they were met in the way by two companies of the men of Britain and the din of Battle was heard! 
20. The sound of the warriors reached the camp; the valiant rushed to the battle! The hosts were engaged, and fierce was the strife of the warriors! 
21. The men of the provinces of Virginia and Maryland, were foremost in the rough front of the battle; their captains, Williams and Campbell led them to glory and victory! The renowned warriors of Britain fled, who were once so terrible in war! 
22. Five hundred of the servants of the king, were taken captives; their bonds were made easy, for they were taken by a generous foe! But Campbell was slain! he died m the bed of honor, and his name shall not perish! 
23. Nathaniel beheld with joy, the rising fame of Columbia; he pursued after the men of Britain, but he could not overtake the swift-footed warriors of the king. 
24. The slain and wounded, and the captives of the men of Britain, were in number, eleven hundred; and there fell in the battle, of the people of the Provinces, five hundred valiant men. 
25. The way. faring man, as he passeth by the field where the valiant fought, will feel the rising fight! The darting tear will come, when he remembers the friend of his early days, who fell in the battle
26. The mother will often, with slow and sorrowful sleps, visit the fatal spot! and mourn the loss of the beloved of her youth, the partner of her cares! The children will hear the sad tale, and their wrath will rife at the name of Britain! O Albion! surely thy wise men were infatuated, they shut their eyes to their true interesd, and became fools 

CHAP. LVII. 
Cornwallis is strengthened by the royal forces under Phillips and Arnold — Traverses the country — Is feebly opposed by the Americans, 

NOW Cornwallis, the king's chief captain in the Southern Provinces, was lifted up in his heart; for he had it in contemplation to subdue the whole land, and establish his name amongst the sons of men, as a warrior of the first degree. 
2. He sent forth the soldiers of Britain in troops, throughout the province of Virginia, who dispersed and put to flight the men of Columbia; for they were too few to stand before him. 
3. For it came to pass, that Benedict and Phillips with about fifteen hundred of the servants of the king, came in the tall ships of the island of Britain, and srengthened his army. 
4. Then was Fayette, the young nobleman from the Kingdom of Gaul, sent by the great Sanhedrim, to oppose the men of Britain; and about three thousand of the men of Columbia, was with Fayette, 

5. And Cornwallis led forth the valiant men of Britain, and journeyed from Petersburg to James' river; and when the men of war were all passed over the river, they journeyed through the county of Hanover, and came to the river Pamunky, so called by the Barbarians, the native inhabitants of the land. 
6. Now the army of Columbia was too weak to fight with the servants of the king; nevertheless, they followed close after them, and watched their steps. 
7. Now the princes of the province, were met together about the affairs of the province; and Cornwallis sent Tarleton to the place where they were assembled together, even to Charlotteville. 
8. And when the assembly of the princes heard thereof, they rose up and fled , howbe it, seven of them were taken captive. 
9. And Simcoe, a chief servant of the king, and a captain in the host; he also was sent to destroy the stores, that were collected at a certain place, but the people had removed them; nevertheless, the men of Britain destroyed the property of the inhabitants in those parts. 
10. And Fayette gained the love of all the people; inasmuch, as his goings forth before the people, was with wisdom and prudence. 
11. And it came to pass not long after, that the chief captain, Wayne came to the help of Fayette; and there were with Wayne the chief captain, eight hundred valiant men. 
12. Now Cornwallis had gotten between the army of the people of the Provinces and their stores, and he deemed it a thing impossible, for the people who were with Fayette to get at the stores. 
13. Howbeit, Fayette, when it was night, led his men by an unfrequented way, and gained the stores that were at Albemarle; and when Cornwallis heard thereof, he was astonished and sore troubled. 
14. Then the men of Britain seeing their intentions were discovered, journeyed back again to Richmond. 
1 5. And the army of the people of the Provinces, who were with Fayette, was again strengthened, by the warriors of the Baron Steuben : and Fayette drew forth the men of war, and magnified the number of the people who were with him. 
16. And Cornwallis being told that the army of the people of the Provinces was strong, even a very great multitude, he fled to Williamsburgh; where the rear of the host was assaulted by some of the warriors of Columbia, under a mighty man of valor, whose name was Butler., 
17. Now about this time, Henry , chief captain of all the armies of the king, in the land of Columbia, let in a fear that he was not safe in the city of York; inasmuch as he had heard, that it was in the heart of George the chief captain, to come against the town; and that the servants of the king of Gaul, were to be joined with the host of the people of the Provinces, in assaulting the town. 

18. And he sent messengers to Cornwallis to advertise him of his danger, that he might send to the city of York, some of the valiant men who were with him. 
19. And Cornwallis; deeming it expedient to obey the command of Henry, and considering that his army would be weakened thereby, he made ready to pass over the river to a more secure place, even to Portsmouth. 
20. And it was so, that as the army of Britain was preparing to pass over the river, that the chief captain, Wayne, was informed that the greater part of the army was passcd over, he took with him the men whom he led forth to battle, who were eight hundred in number, that they might assault the rear of the host. 
21. And lo! when he came to the river, Cornwallis, with a great part of the host were drawn up in battle array, to fight with him. 
22. Then was Wayne the chief captain, astonished : howbeit, he was a man that was not easily discomfited; he therefore fell upon the men of Britain, and when a convenient time was come, he led away his men from the field of battle. 
23. And Cornwallis thinking that it was a snare to divert him from the purposes of his heart, he pursued not after the people of the Provinces, and they escaped, 
24. Then the men of Britain passed over the river; And about this time, Cornwallis received a letter from Henry, and it was written in the letter, that Cornwallis might keep the soldiers he had with him, for the service of the king in those parts; and he was also advised in the letter, to occupy some convenient place, where the ships of the king, and the host of Britain might be secure. 
25. And it was so, that after the chief men had consulted together; the town of York, and the Point of Gloucester were chosen, and there the host encamped; and they strengthened themselves there, and it became a place of defence. 


CHAP. LVIIL 

General Washington puts the American army in motion; and in conjunction with the French forces, marches to York-town. Count de Grasse arrives with the French fleet , at the Chesapeak, The British under Cornwallis, are closely invested, and finally capitulate. 

NOW when George the captain, of all the armies of Columbia, was told that Cornwall, was strengthening himself in the town of York,in the province of Virginia; he gathered together all the valiant men, even a great multitude : and the servants of the king of Gaul were also gathered together, under Rochambeau, a chief captain of the King of Gaul. 
2. And they journeyed along the high way of the country, and the husbandmen rejoiced, inasmuch as they were not spoiled by the armed men, in their passing along the way. 
3. And the host of Columbia drew nigh unto the town, where the men of Britain were encamped, and they hastened, that they might come to the end of their journey; inasmuch, as they counted it a thing that was certain, that the men in the town would fall a prey to the people of the Provinces. 
4. For it came to pass, that the strong armed ships of the king of Gaul, appeared in the mouth of the river; and the mariners cast: forth the anchors, and the ships were fastened by srrong cables, so that they were a lett to the ships of the king of Britain, that passed that way.  
5. Now Cornwallis was ensnared, inasmuch as his enemies surrounded him on every side, and he was filled with indignation, because of these things; yea, he was like the fierce lion, when he is pursued by the hunter : he shakes his mane in anger, his active powers are stimulated by fierce wrath! he foams at the mouth, and suddenly springs upon the daring foe! 
6. Such was the wrath of Cornwalls the chief captain; accustomed to victory, he scorned to be hemmed within the narrow enclosures of the town, but often broke forth upon the men of war, like a mighty torrent! 
7. The destroying engines from the ramparts of the town, declared his displeasure! they call out their thunders with ten-fold fury! the earth trembled at the sound thereof, and great was the astonishment of the neighbouring husbandmen. 
8. Nevertheless, George the chief captain, and the valiant men of Columbia, regarded them not; they were in one mind, and were not easily turned : they shot into the town, and brake down the walls thereof! the choice warriors of Britain were smitten to the earth! they were discomfited, for there was no hope! 
9. They walked to and fro, as men who had lost their way in the desert! they started aside at the noise of the destroying engines! they gat into their close places of defence! they had no rest! The valiant men were dismayed! their sinews were relaxed, because of the destruction both within and without. 
10. Now after the space of nine days, when the defenced places of the men of Britain were destroyed, by the destroying engines, and many of the men of war were deceased, and many of the chief warriors were slain; then it was, that Cornwallis endeavoured to escape from the town. 

1 1. And he caused the boats to be in readiness, and when it was night, many of the armed men were put into the boats, and passed over the river. 
1 2. But it came to pass, that a great storm arose and dispersed the boats, and frustrated the designs of the chief captain. 
13. And when the morning of the next day appeared, the men who had passed over the river, returned back again to the town; then was Cornwallis discomfited, and his thoughts were troubled. 
14. Howbeit, seeing no remedy, he sent a written letter to George the chief captain, where in he proposed that the destroying engines should cease to utter thunders, for the space, of twenty-four hours. 
15. And also, that suitable men, called Commissioners, should be appointed to settle the business of the siege, and write down the agreement between the two chief captains. 
1 6. Then George the chief captain, did as Cornwallis had desired him; he caused the destroying engines to cease from uttering their thunders, and silence pervaded the whole camp. 
17. And on the nineteenth day of the tenth month, in the one thousand seven hundred and eighty-first year of the Christian Hegira, was the town given up to the people of the Provinces; and all the armed men were made captives, and the instruments of war, and the treasures of the king of Britain were taken. 
1 8. Now when the report thereof, was spread abroad into all lands, it was cause of astonishment; inasmuch as it was a strange thing to hear of an army of the king of Britain, going into captivity; furthermore, it was known that Cornwallis was a mighty man of valor, and the men of Britain who were with him, were all valiant men. 
19. The sect of the tories, believed it not; they were confounded I they shut their ears at the report thereof: they said one to another, lo! now the sons of Belial, even the sect of the whigs, feigneth this thing out of their own mouths, that the king's friends may be discouraged. 

CHAR LIX. 

The news of the capture of Cornwallis arrlves in England — Debates in Parliament, 

NOW when tidings came to the king of Britain, and the great council of the kingdom, that the Southern army was taken captive; they gazed upon each other as men who had lost their wits! 
2. They essayed to speak, but their tongues clave to the roof of their mouths! they were silent through grief, for a season! Howbeit, their enemies caused them to speak, and there was a great wrath amongst the counsellors! 
3. And one spake after this manner, and another after that manner, and there was great confusion amongst them! for they took it greatly to heart, that the same of the warriors of Britain was fallen. 
4. Now it came to pass, in the fourth month, in the next year after that Cornwallis was taken captive; that there was a great battle on the waters of the mighty ocean, between the ships of the king of Britain; and the ships of the king of Gaul : on the twelfth day of the month was the battle fought. 
5. And the navy of Britain triumphed over the ships of the king of Gaul, and there was a great slaughter; and de Grasse the great sea-captain, was taken captive; and many of the ships of the king of Gaul, were destroyed by Rodney, chief captain of the navy of Britain. 
6. Tremendous was the noise of the destroying engines, the sea monsters fled at the report thereof! they hid themselves under the rocks! at the bottom of the mountains, they were gathered together! fear and amazement seized them, they trembled even in their ancient habitations! 
7. Was man created for these things ? Was it designed by the great Creator, that the noblest workmanship of his hands should destroy each other ? Nay verily! Was it not rather his intention, that they should love as brethren, and be continually exercised in acts of benevolence and mercy ? Were these virtues more generally cultivated in the hearts of the people, the whole creation would again enjoy its sabbath, and the earth would be replenished with joy and gladness. 

CHAP. LX. 

The Independence of the thirteen United States acknowledged in Europe, Peace is declared. 

NOW the nations and kings, who were warring together, grew weary thereof, and desired peace inasmuch as the sword devoured many of their valiant men, and they were not a whit the better for it : what they gained in one place, they often lost as much in another. 
2. Nevertheless, it went to the heart of the king of Britain, that he must lose his possessions in the land of Columbia; howbeit, there was no remedy, for his treasure was expended, and the people were weary of the war. 
3. Then he consented that there should be peace, and that the people of the Provinces should be governed by their own People, independent of the kingdom of Britain and he resigned unto them his power and kingly authority. 
4. And the Provinces in the land of Columbia, were called by a new name, and they became one people, and the great Sanhedrim ruled over them. 
5. And on the twentieth day of the second month, in the one thousand seven hundred and eighty-second year of the Christian Hegira, was peace proclaimed : and the men of Britain, departed from the land of Columbia. 
6. And each man of the host of the people of the Provinces, went to his own house; and there was joy and gladness throughout the whole land, 
7. May it be a prelude to that peace, mentioned in the bock of the Prophet Isaiah When the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established upon the tops of the mountains, and be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it! 
8.  And they shall beat their swords into plow-shares, and their spears into pruning- hooks! Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more! 
9. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad, and the desert shall rejoice, and blssom as the rose! 
10. The mind of the scribe, strongly impressed with this idea, and animated with the prospect of the dawning of that glorious morn, shall henceforth seek the shade of retirement, and repose himself under the canopy of peace, regardless of censure or praise; well knowing, that when a few more suns have rolled their cares away, he will be perfectly insensible both to the one and the other. 
