By NATHAN BEN SADDI,
A Priest of the JEWS

LONDON
Printed for T. Cooper, at the Globe in Pater-noster
Row. 1742


THE SECOND BOOK
OF THE
CHRONICLE
OF THE
KINGS of ENGLAND

XXIV. James I.

And Jamie thought himself a bonny King, and a mickle wise Mon. Howbeit he was a Fool and a Pedant.

But the Spirit of Flattery went forth in the Land, and the great Men and the Bishops offered Incense unto him, saying,

O most sacred King! Thou art wiser than the Children of Men! thou speakest by the Spirit of God!

There has been none equal to thee before thee, neither will any arise after thee like unto thee.

Thus they abused him daily with lying and fulsome Adulation.

And the Ear of James was tickled therewith, and he was puffed up, and he thought himself wise; whereupon he began to dispute with the Doctors, and to decide Controversies, and to write Books; and the World was undeceived.

Howbeit a new Translation of the Bible was set on foot in his Reign, and it was executed with great Care and Exactness, and the same is read by the People unto this Day.

In this Reign also the two Kingdoms of England and Scotland were united together, andhe gave unto them the Name of Great Britain; and the two Nations became as one People.

Moreover he issued a Proclamation to enforced the Act of Uniformity; and of ten thousand pious Ministers that dispensed the Word, but forty and nine were found that did not conform.

And the forty and nine who had Consciences were suspended; but the nine thousand fifty and one, who had no Conscience, were continued as faithful Ministers of the Word.

And it came to pass in the third Year of his Reign, that the Pope and the Devil laid their Heads together, and contrived a most grievous Plot.

And the Pope said unto the Devil, Wherewith shall we destroy him? And the Devil said unto the Pope, I will do it with Gunpowder.

Howbeit the Wisdom of James was greater than the Wisdom of the Pope and the Devil, and he smelled out their Plot, and prevented it.

And James was glad that he was alive; therefore he appointed the fifth Day of the Month November as a Day of Thanksgiving for ever. And Bonfires are made, and Squibs and Crackers are let off in the Streets, in Derision of the Devil and his Gunpowder Plot unto this Day.

Now James the King was of a sociable and loving Nature, and he could not be without a Bosom Friend with whom he might communicate his internos sensus, and upon whose Shoulders he might sometimes lay a Burden which he was not willing to bear himself.

Wherefore he cast an Eye of Favour upon Sir Robert Carr, a Gentleman of Scotland, of such exquisite Beauty, and so delicate a Composure of Body, as if Nature had framed him on purpose to be a King's Favourite.

And the King loved him, and he pleased the King; nor was any Man Partaker of the Royal Influence like unto him, all Matters of Grace and Favour passing from the King by him, insomuch that the Queen was jealous.

Moreover it came to pass, that on Easter Monday, in the Year One thousand six undred and eleven, for his great Services done unto the King, he was created Viscount Rochester; on the two and twentieth of April, One thousand six hundred and twelve, he was sworn a Privy Counsellor; on the fourth of November, One thousand six hundred and thirteen, he was created Earl of Somerset; and on the tenth of July following, he was made Lord Chamberlain; so true is that Saying,

Improbe amor, quod non mortalia pectora cogis?

But this Sunshine of Konstone(?) lasted not long; whether the King grew weary of him, as not being so agreeable as when he was first taken into Favour, or whether the Machinations of the jealous Queen wrought his Destruction, we cannot say; but being suspected of contriving the Death of Sir Thomas Overbury by Poison, he was arraigned and condemned for the same; and though, through the Clemency of the King, his Life was spared, he was never after suffered to see the King's Face, nor to come over(?) to his Court.

Howbeit, the King could not be long without an Alter idem; wherefore he took unto himself a beautiful Youth named George Villiers; and he loaded him with Honours, and used him in all Respects like unto the other.

And James believed himself a great King, and conceived high Notions of the Royal Prerogative; insomuch that he looked upon the Parliament as a troublesome and unnecessary Thing; and thought it extremely hard, that so great a King should be bound by the Laws of the Land, or his Corronation Oath, or that he should be obliged to call a Parliament to make Laws, when he might do it alone by his absolute Power.

Moreover, he approved the Book of Doctor Blackwood, which laid it down as a Principle, that the English were all Slaves by reason of the Norman Conquest.

With these Notions he poisoned himself and his Son, and laid the Foundation of those Troubles which ended in the Ruin of his Family.

And it came to pass in these Days, that a certain Impostor, named Richard Hadock, pretended to preach in his Sleep, in such sort, that though he were called aloud, or stirred and pulled by the Hands or Feet, yet he seemed not to hear or to feel.

And he continued to do this in the Presence of many Persons who resorted to hear him; insomuch that in a short Time his Fame was spread through the Land by the Name of the sleeping Preacher, and many were brought to believe that these his mighty Preachings were by Inspiration from Heaven.

Tantum Religio potuit suadere Foolorum?

But the King discovered the Cheat, and commanded him in all Places to declare himself an Impostor.

Howbeit, the Race of Reverend Sleepers continue, and infest the Land with large long-laboured Volumes of heavy and somniferous Lumber unto this Day.

And it came to pass in the seventeenth Year of the Reign of King James, that the Wife of his Bosom fell sick, and her Sickness was unto Death.

Then James the King was sore troubled, and he put on Sackcloth and bewailed himself; and so great was his Sorrow, that he spake not, neither did he eat for many Days.

Howbeit, he was a wife Man, and he said within himself, Why should I be any longer troubled, or why should my Spirit be sunk within me? Our Tears avail not to the Dead, neither do they hear our Cries.

Sorrow dimmeth the Eyes, and Grief withereth the Countenance, but the Smile of a Friend reviveth the Heart.

So the King arose, and washed himself, and did eat Bread.

Now the rest of the Acts of King James, and his Wisdom, and his Learning, and all the Books that he wrote, behold thou mayst find them in the Chandlers Shops unto this Day.

And James slept with his Fathers, after he had reigned over England twenty and two Years, and Charles his Son reigned in his stead.

XXV. Charles I.

...
