---
id: pseudobib1809firstbooknapole
short_title: "The First Book of Napoleon"
title: "The First Book of Napoleon, the Tyrant of the Earth: Written in the 5813th Year of the World"
author: Eliakim the Scribe
year: 1809
place: London
source: https://archive.org/details/firstbooknapole00gruagoog
status: CLEAN+0
note: 
---

Charitable and Gentle Reader ! to thee the Author of this Book has little to say, thy attributes being the godlike virtues of meekness and charity. 

Pious and Religious Reader ! let not thy feelings be offended, and withhold thy censure, 
until thou shalt find in these pages a single sentiment inconsistent with the spirit and principles of that holy religion which thou professest; and condemn not the feebly imitative manner of writing therein occasionally employed, until thou canst point out a language more impressive, or more appropriate, than that in imitation whereof these chapters are framed. 

Readers in general ! take warning from the awful examples, and profit by the whole some admonitions therein contained, and believe that they are truly intended for your good and welfare. 

Napoleon ! if, peradventure, this little volume should ever reach thee, may its truths sink 
deep into thine heart, and remember in the midst of the torrents of blood thy guilty ambition is shedding, and the ruin and desolation it is spreading far and wide, that thou art a mortal man ; and one day, perhaps ere long, thy soul shall be required of thee, and an account of all thy deeds, by that omnipotent, unerring, and upright Being, who, as he made and governeth, so in like manner shall he judge the world. 

King of the Albions ! of whom mention is made in these pages, be assured, that the effusions of loyalty to thy person, and admiration of thy virtues, which they contain, are those not of the author only, but of a brave, affectionate, and dutiful people. 

ELIAKIM. 



CONTENTS 
OF 
THE FIRST BOOK OF NAPOLEON. 

CHAP. I. 

1. Appearance of an Evil Spirit on the face of the earthy being the forerunner of the Tyrant. — 2. It seizeth upon the inhabitants of the land of Gaul. — 3. Its progress* — 4. The Idolatry of the Gauls. — 5. Description and signs of the Beast, or Idol, which this people worshipped. Page 1 

CHAP. II. 

1. The Evil Spirit increaseth. — 2. The corrupt tree, and its fruits. — 3. It is a cumberer of the ground, and doth not prosper therein ; but is cast down, and destroyed. 14 

CHAP. III. 

1. The birth-place of the Tyrant Napoleon. — 2. He professeth himself to be a worshipper of the idol.— 3. He goeth into the land of Egypt, wageth war, and sojourneth for sometime there.— A. He threateneth. Palestine and Jerusalem. — 5* He returneth suddenly from thence, destroyeth the first Idol, and putteth himself at the head of the armies of the Gauls. — 6. He becometh a mighty Conqueror, powerful in war, and overwhelmeth many of the Kings and Princes of the earth. — -7. He is a punishment unto the nations for the wickedness of their ways. — 8. The oppressed cry aloud unto the 
Lord for relief from the oppressor ; but for a season he listeneth not unto them, and hardeneth the Tyrant 9. heart, because of the perverse wickedness of the people 19

CHAP. IV.
 
Character of Napoleon

CHAP. V. 
1. Description of the land of Albion, and of the good king that reigneth over the same. — 2. His Throne. — 3. Description also of the Tree which had grown and flourished in this Land for many generations, and of the goodly fruits thereof 32

CHAP. VI. 

1. How the people of Albion resisted the temptations of the tcfo/.— 2. Are hated by the Gauls, and the tyrant Napoleon, who plotteth their destruction, and sweareth vengeance against them, and their good king Albanus 39

CHAP. VII. 

1. The threat* of tke Gauls, and of the Tyrant, come to the ears of the Albions, who accordingly make mighty preparations to resist their foes. — fc. The people of Albion cleave to their King and native land, and rise as one man to oppose the Tyrant and his hosts, who dread the sea, and the valour of the Albions, by sea and land. Page 46 

CHAP. VIII. 

1. The ships of war which carried the army of the Gauls into Egypt, are destroyed in a dreadful battle, by a captain of the navy of King Albanus. — 2. The armies of the Albions thereafter defeat those of the Gauls wheresoever they meet. — 3. The Albions rescue the land of Egypt from the Gauls.— 4. The chief of the army of the Albions falls in battle. — 5. The Gauls are afterwards defeated by the Albions in the land of Calabria 52 

CHAP. IX. 

1. The dominion of the Tyrant extendeth itself upon the face of the earth. — 2. He continueth to deceive the Kings and Princes thereof, and the people over whom they reigned. — 3. Some are overthrown by open force,  others soothed and beguiled, until a convenient season arriveth for their complete and final destruction. . . 56 

CHAP. X. 

1. Wise Counsellors, and mighty Captains of hosts and of ships, with whom it pleased the Lord to bless King Albanus. — 2. He is deprived of some of them by death.— 3. Lamentations for their loss.  67

CHAP. XI. 

1. The oak of Albion. — 2. He claimeth the sovereignty of the Wood and of the Flood 72

CHAP. XII. 

1. The Kings and Princes of the earth are warned of the craft and subtleties of the Tyrant. — 2. Virtue is recommended as the only secure foundation of the kingdoms of this earth. — 3. The solidity of the Empire of  Almighty God ascribed, amongst other things, to the sense felt by created existence of the purity and holiness of the Great Governor of all things 75

CHAP. XIII. 

1. The People of Albion are told of their increasing wickedness and licentiousness, and are admonished accordingly* — 2. Their manners are inveighed against, and they are summoned to repentance and amendment of life 82

CHAP. XIV. 

1. A mighty storm ariseth.—2. The vessel of the State is in danger of perishing. — 3. A wise and good Counsellor pilots the vessel and weathers the storm.— 4. The vessel is brought into a safe harbour ; but the pilot 
thereof dieth, through his endeavours to save the vessel 90

CHAP. XV. 

1. Mode of reforming the Commonwealth recommended,— 2. Warnings against violent and dangerous changes. — 3. Admonitions to the people of Albion in regard thereto 95

CHAP. XVI. 

1. The parable of the Bear and the Monkey. — 2. The Monkey is suddenly changed into a Tiger, which devoureth the Bear, and scattereth his flesh and his bones to the winds of heaven 100 

CHAP. XVII. 

The Vision of Eliakim 104 

CHAP. XVIII. 

The Vision Continued 108 

CHAP. XIX. 

The End of the Vision 115 

CHAP. XX. 

The warnings and admonitions which the Angel gave in commission, to be delivered unto the King of Albanus and to his first born y and to all the sons and daughters of the King. — 2. As also unto the Rulers and Counsellors of the land, and the Judges thereof 9 
and unto all the people who dwell therein. 120 

CHAP. XXI. 

Admonitions and Warnings to the Priests and Nobles of  the land. — 2. To the Representatives and Counsellors of the people. — 3. To Judges and Magistrates 127 

CHAP. XXII. 

Admonitions to the Matrons and Daughters of Albion 134 

CHAP. XXIII. 

General admonitions to the people of Albion 140 

Conclusion , 145 



ERRATA. 



Chap. JL vote 8, fir but read except. 

17, — backs — num. 

18, — wtys — designs. 
83, — overthrow none — ¦ overthrown one. 

4, — traiteroos — traitoroo* 
37, — infkllitbly — infallibly. 




NAPOLEON 

THE TYRANT. 

BOOK I. 



CHAP. I. 

1. Appearance of an Evil Spirit on the face of the earthy being the forerunner of the Tyrant — 2. It seizeth upon the inhabitants of the land of Gaul. — 3. Its progress. — 4. The idolatry of the Gauls. — 5. Description and signs of the Beast, or Idol, which this people worshipped. 

1. And behold it came to pass, in these latter days, that an evil spirit arose on the face of the earth, and greatly troubled the sons of men, 

2. And this spirit seized upon, and spread amongst the people who dwell in the land of Gaul 

3. Now, in this people the fear of the Lord had not been for many generations, and they had become a corrupt and perverse people; and their chief priests, and the nobles of the land, and the learned men thereof, had become wicked in the imaginations of their hearts, and in the practices of their lives. 

4. And the evil spirit went abroad amongst the people, and they raged like unto the heathen, and they rose up against their lawful king, and slew him, and his queen also, and the prince their son yea, verily, with a cruel and bloody death. 

5. And they moreover smote, with mighty wrath, the king's guards, and banished the priests, and nobles of the land, and seized upon, and took unto themselves, their inheritances, their gold and silver, corn and oil, and whatsoever belonged unto them. 

6. Now it came to pass, that the nation of the Gauls continued to be sorely troubled and vexed, and the evil spirit whispered unto the people, even unto the meanest and vilest thereof, that all men being born equal, were free to act, each one according to the imaginations and devices of his own heart, without the fear of God, or the control of the lawful rulers of the land. 

7. And lo ! this foolish and wicked counsel of evil designing men, being seemly, and well pleasing in the sight of the multitude, they raged furiously against all principalities and powers ; and having slain the good king whom the Lord had appointed to rule over them, and to administer justice unto them ; they moreover sought to overthrow and destroy the kings and rulers over the other nations of the earth, and made war upon them ; and stirred up the people of those nations in like manner to wage war against the lawful rulers of the lands, wherein they had been appointed to dwell. 

8. Now, it so happened, that the evil spirit stirred up every one to seek his own exaltation, tyrant humbling and debasing those whom God had 
made superior to him, in mind, body, and estate. 

9. And while this spirit raged in Gaul, the curse of God was upon the land, and bloodshed, murder, and rapine, and all manner of blasphemy, wickedness, and uncleanness, prevailed amongst the people thereof. 

10. And they not only despised the commandments of the Lord, but also blasphemed the name of the only true and living God, and they made idols and false gods to themselves, and fell down and worshipped them. 

11. And lo, and behold, the chief idol, which this wicked and perverse people set up and worshipped, was like unto a beast, although made somewhat after the image of a man. 

12. And out of the head of the beast there arose three horns, and upon each of the horns there were written these words, Sedition, Privy Conspiracy, and Rebellion ; and on the forehead of the beast, and under the horns, there were written, in letters of blood, the words Treasons and Crimes. 

13 And from the eyes of the beast there proceeded flashes of devouring fire, and its jaws and throat were like unto the mouth of hell, and from its tongue there issued cursings and blasphemings. 

14 And upon the breast of the beast, there were written these words, Irreligion, Infidelity, and Tumult. 

15. And in its right hand, it held an emblem of fire and sword, and in its left, an emblem of rapine and murder. 

16 And upon the feet of the beast, there were brazen sandals, like unto those worn by men, and upon the sandal of the right foot, there was engraven, in letters of brass, Terror and Dismay ; and upon the sandal of the left foot, Blood and Famine, signifying, that wheresoever the beast established itself, or trode, those 
direful evils would afflict the land. 

17 And behold, the name of the idol was called Licentiousness. 

18 And Io ! a loud and warning voice, proceeding as it were from the heavens on high, was heard upon the earth beneath, saying, " Beware, O man, of the exceeding great vileness and abominations of the beast or idol herein described, for upon the followers and worshippers thereof, there shall descend justice, and 
divers and direful judgments." 



CHAP. II. 

1. The evil spirit increaseth. — 2. The corrupt tree , and its fruits.— $. It is a cumber er of the ground, and doth not prosper therein : but is cast down, and destroyed. And the evil spirit continued to spread itself amongst the nations of the earth, and they were sorely afflicted, and troubled therewith. 

2 And the idolatry of the beast in like manner prevailed among the sons of men, and it pleased the Lord to deliver the worshippers thereof into the hands of the Gauls. 

3 Now the Gauls continued to rage as heretofore, with mighty ire, and waged war against all nations, people, and languages. 

4 And the kings and rulers of the earth, beheld the raging of the storm, and combined together to quell the fury thereof. 

5 But the power of the evil spirit, and of the multitude which it moved, was mighty great, and from amongst them there arose valiant captains, and men of war, and they overthrew those that waged war against them. 

6 And lo ! the tillers of the ground, and the labourers thereof, together with mechanics, artificers, and all manner of handicraftmen, left their sundry and peaceful occupations, and became lawmakers and lawgivers, and sought to rule over their superiors. 

7 Now, it had pleased the Lord to darken the understandings of those foolish men ; for they vainly imagined, that laws and institutions may be forthwith made, like unto things of cunning device, or built in a season, or by models, like unto earthly habitations ; whereas, they grow naturally and gradually after the manner of trees, and, like them, require to be trained and pruned by the wary hand of age and time. 

8 Now, as good and wholesome laws and institutions, or, as they are called in these latter days, good constitutions, after the manner of trees, do not take root and grow but in good soils, and where they are well watered and sheltered i so, in like manner, as is known unto all husbandmen, the tree that springeth and flourisheth in one, and a good soil, decayeth and dieth in another, or bad soil. 

9 As the dew of heaven, and the sun-beams thereof, water and cherish the earthly tree, so also, do the spirits of the departed patriots of a land, and the blood of the warriors thereof, foster and support the political tree, or constitution of the state. 


10 But the Gauls were altogether a wicked and perverse people, and the tree which they had planted in the midst of them was a blasted tree, and lo and behold, it brought forth nothing but bad and forbidden fruit, and all manner of unrighteousness, such as pertaineth unto the idol of whom it is before- written, and whom they, in the foolish imaginations of their hearts, had vainly worshipped. 

11 And this evil tree was planted in many and divers places $ but the leaves and branches thereof decayed, and were blasted, and its roots rotted ; because the sap which was in the tree, was poison, and all those who tasted of its fruit perished thereby ; yea, even with a cruel and bloody death. 

12 And behold the tree partook of the nature of the beast, of which it is before- written ; for it had sprung from the rottenness and corruption thereof. 

13 And when the Lord looked down from heaven, and beheld the perverse wickedness of the Gauls, he said, yea, verily, I will punish this people for the wickedness of their ways. 

14 So the Lord spake by his prophets, and said unto the people of Gaul, O foolish people, ye have cast down and slain, with a cruel and ignominious death, the king whom I had appointed to rule over you, and whose fathers had reigned in the land for many generations ; and ye have destroyed all principalities and powers, and have despised all holy things, and have imagined vain and wicked conceits, and have moreover troubled the peace of the world, and sworn enmity to the kings and rulers of the earth ;  but I will punish you, O people, for these evil doings ; and lo and behold, a mean born stranger shall come from afar, and ye shall pay obeisance to him, and fear him, and lick the dust under his feet, and tremble under his crown, which, unto you, shall be a crown of iron. 

15 And lo ! the prophecy of the Lord was fulfilled, as will be made manifest from what is hereafter written in this book. 


CHAP. III. 

1. The Birth-place of the Tyrant Napoleon. — 2. He professeth himself to be a worshipper of the idol. — 3. He goeth into the land of Egypt, wageth war, and sojourneth for some time there. — 4. He threateneth Palestine and Jerusalem. — 5. He returneth suddenly from thence, and destroyeth the first Idol, and putteth himself at the head of the armies of the Gauls. — 6. He becometh a mighty Conqueror, powerful in war, and overwhelmed many of the kings and princes of the earth. — 7. He is a punishment unto the nations for the wickedness of their ways.— 8. The oppressed cry aloud unto the Lord for relief from the oppressor ; but for a season he lis tenet h not unto them, and hardeneth the Tyrant's heart, because of the perverse wickedness of the people. 

1 Now, in the land called Corsica, which is an island in the sea, there was a man born, and his name was Napoleon. 

2 And this man, though small in stature, was nevertheless vast in spirit, and he not only conceived unto himself, great and marvellous designs, but was moreover wicked, and cunning in council, mighty in deeds, and powerful in war. 

3 And he professed himself to be a true worshipper of the idol, and yet he hated the idol in his heart, and had made unto himself another idol, of the nature, whereof it is hereafter written. 

4 And he declared himself to be an enemy unto all principalities and powers, and the friend of freedom and equality amongst the sons of men, and he was appointed Captain over the armies of the worshippers of the idol. 

5 And he commanded the hosts thereof, and went forth against the lawful rulers of the earth, and overthrew them, together with the mighty high priest, who for many generations had commanded the fear and veneration of men. 

6 And lo this man went into the land of Egypt, with many ships and a mighty army ; and having conquered the inhabitants thereof, he proceeded against Palestine, and threatened the city of Jerusalem. 

7 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how are the mighty fallen, and how nearly hadst thou been con- 
quered, yet "a second time, by the arm of an infidel. 

8 

But behold the progress of this man, in the 
land of Egypt, was stopped by a captain of the 
navy of good King Albanus, the King of the 
Albions, the history of whom is herein after 
written. 

9. 

Now, this man Napoleon, after sojourning 
for many days in the land of Egypt, suddenly 
took his departure from thence, and returned 
unto the country of the Gauls, and overthrew 
like a whirlwind the rulers thereof, and put him- 
self at the head of the armies of the multitude, 
and declared himself to be the governor of the 
nation, which he began to rule with a rod of 
iron. 

10. 

And this man being a mighty man of war, 




and a great captain, put himself at the head of 
the hosts of the Gauls, and thirsted for glory, 
dominion, and power. 

11. 

And he waged war against the surround- 
ing nations, and overthrew one people after 
another. 

12. 

And his hosts were in number like unto the 
sands of the sea, and in power to the thunders 
of the skies ; for his deeds resembled in quick- 
ness the lightning of heaven, and in might they 
were likened unto the thunderbolts thereof. 

13. 

And lo, the people of Gaul forgot their for- 
mer idol, which is described in the beginning 
of this book, and fell down and worshipped this 
strange and new idol, the nature whereof dif- 
fered from the former in manner and in kind. 

14. 

For upon the crown of this idol, which be- 
ing a man, was altogether after the likeness 
thereof, there were written Dominion, Prin- 
cipalities, and Power; and under the 
crown, which was an iron crown, and on the 



forehead of the man there was written Ambi- 
tion ; and on his breastplate there were also 
written, Counsel, Promptitude, and De- 
ceit. 

15. 

And the man Napoleon held in his right 
hand a sword of steel, whereon were engraven 
Death, Victory, and Conquest, and in his 
left a roll of parchment, and in the roll was 
written the Dominion of the World, and un- 
der the same the names of the nations which 
he had conquered, yea all people within th$ 
reach of his power. 

16. 

And on the sandal of his right foot there was 
engraven, in letters of brass, Oppression, and 
on that of his left, Slavery. 

17. 
And his throne, which reached unto the 

clouds, was raised on the backs of fallen nations, 
once great and glorious, but now prostrate and 
humbled in the dust. 

18. 
For he had overthrown, like a whirlwind, 
and in the twinkling of an eye, the armies of 


many of the kings and rulers of the nations of 
the earth ; because they had become vile and 
polluted in all manner of sinful corruption, and 
would not be warned by the voice of wisdom, 
and combine firmly together, nor be true and 
faithful one to another ; but listened to the sug- 
gestions of the evil spirit and of the idol, which 
had darkened their understandings, and pre- 
pared them for downfal and ruin. 

19. 

Now, the sway of this man pervaded many 
lands, and many of the kings and princes of the 
earth were made tributary to him, and the na- 
tions thereof groaned under his feet. 

20. 

And he now compelled the tillers of the 
ground, and the labourers thereof, and the hus- 
bandmen, and handicraftmen, who, under the 
first idol, had met together to commune con- 
cerning superiorities and powers, and to make 
laws unto themselves, to leave their peaceful 
homes, their wives, children, and kindred, and 
their lawful occupations, and to go into distant 
lands, and there endure cold and hunger, and 
suffer long marches, and mix in direful and 


bloody battles, all to fill up the measure of this 
man's boundless ambition. 

21 

And it pleased the Lord, as a punish- 
ment for the wickedness and perverseness of 
the people, to deliver into the hands of this man 
the dominion over many lands, that they might 
be ruled as with a rod of iron, and chastened for 
the iniquity and wickedness of their ways, and 
brought back from the paths of sin and licen- 
tiousness, and the idolatry of the beast, to those 
of justice, moderation, and truth, and the fear 
of the only true and living God. 

22 

And the people of the land of Gaul, and all 
the nations whom it had pleased the Lord to 
deliver into the hands of this strange man, 
groaned heavily, and cried unto the Lord in 
their hearts for freedom, forgiveness, and mer- 
cy. 

23 

But having forgot and despised the Lord 
their God, in the pride and wickedness of their 

hearts, he left them to reap the fruits of their 
evil ways, and for a season listened not unto 
them in their sufferings and distress. 

24 
Now, behold, all the nations within the 
reach of this man Napoleon, groaned under the 
dominion of his power, and were sore afflicted 
in mind, body, and estate, for he ruled over 
them with a sceptre of iron. 



CHAP. IV. 

Character of Napoleon. 

The wise man in scripture hath said, that 
" the fear of the Lord is the beginning of know- 
ledge ;" but it is moreovej the very perfection 
and consummation of wisdom. 

2 

True, O Napoleon, thy perceptions are 
quick, thy promptitude and execution great, 
thy deceit and effrontery unexampled, and thy 


skill and courage in war undeniable ; but thou 
hast failed in giving proofs of that soundness 
and solidity of judgment, that greatness, good- 
ness, and nobleness of mind, which are the pe- 
culiar attributes of true wisdom and genuine 
dignity. 

3 

Hence, thou hast dazzled mankind by the 
brilliancy of thy deeds, and by rearing on a 
sudden, a vast and splendid fabric ; but its 
foundation is on the sandy basis of force and 
terror, and when the reason, courage, and re- 
flection of the nations thou hast conquered, shall 
emerge from the veil thou hast cast over them, 
the foundation of the fabric thou hast raised shall 
be undermined, and swept away by the return- 
ing current of rational and regenerated liberty. 

4 

Whereas, hadst thou been a man of great wis- 
dom and of sound understanding, thou mightest 
have erected upon the rock of genuine freedom, 
a great edifice of solid dimensions, which was not 
likely to have been moved from its foundation, and 
which thou and thy descendants might have in
habited in peace and gladness for many gene 
rations. 

5 

But thou art the child of a boundless ambi- 
tion, and the sport of an ungovernable passion, 
which hurrieth the inheritor thereof to ruin and 
destruction. 

6 

As thou hast not given proofs of sound and 
solid judgment and understanding in the things 
thou hast done, neither hast thou displayed any 
of those noble qualities of the heart, which dis- 
tinguished the brave warriors and great con- 
querors of ancient times. 

7 
Thou art of hasty and fiery temper, cruel 
and vindictive, insolent, not compassionate, to- 
wards a conquered foe. 

8 
Thy history doth not say, that thou hast ever 
consoled the unfortunate, dried up the tear of 
sorrow, or made the mournful eye to sparkle 
with gladness. 

9 
Moreover, well has it been for thee, that, in 


the times in which thou hast lived, few of the 
kings on the thrones of the surrounding nations 
have possessed the talents, or inherited the mar- 
tial fire and daring spirits of their ancestors. 

10 

Nor hast thou been less remarkable for the 
numerous victories thou hast gained, th&n for 
the consequences thy art and cunning have en- 
abled thee to derive from them. 

11 

Neither, O Napoleon, thou 'strange and 
wicked man, art thou of any manner of religion : 
but contrariwise, an infidel, scoffer, and blasphemer. 

12 

Didst not thou commence the career of thy 
depravity, by blasphemously declaring thyself, 
in common with the Gauls, an unbeliever in the 
only true and living God, and in the immortali- 
ty of the soul ? 

13 

Thereafter, at Rome, didst pot tjiou impious- 
ly swear on the Holy Evangelists, and bow the 
knee to Jesus of Nazareth, the Saviour of the 

World, in whom thou hypocritically professedst 
thyself to be a sincere Believer ? 

14 
In the Holy Land, again, nay almost in the 
very precincts of Jerusalem, and in the places 
where the Saviour taught and suffered, didst 
not thou kiss the Koran, and declare Mahomet 
to be the only trife Prophet of God ? 

15 
Whilst these things were doing, O Heavens, 
where were thy thunders ? 

16 
Earth, how came it that thou didst not open 
thy jaws, and swallow him up ? 

17 

Ye rocks and ye mountains, why did not 
ye fall upon and overwhelm him ? 

18 

Was it because the ways of Providence were 
not fulfilled with this man on Earth, and that 
he might be reserved as an instrument of pu- 
nishment for the wickedness of those nations 
who should have the impiety to enlist and 
marshal themselves under the banners of an 
Infidel, Scoffer, and Blasphemer ? 


19 
That he might carry into the several lands 
of those who were seduced by his cunning de- 
ceits, and who were like unto himself impious 
and profane, fire and sword, murder, famine, 
pestilence and divers evils and diseases ? 

20 
, As thy days, O Napoleon, are full of evil 
doings, so in like manner. are they full of won- 
ders ; but thy days are quickly passing away, 
and the hand of death is stretching itself forth 
apace towards thee, and at its sable touch, thy 
turbulent and fiery clay shall moulder into 
cold and silent dust. 

21 
As for thy soul, it is in the hand of a Great 
and Just God, the giver thereof, nor dare mor- 
tal scan its final doom. 

22 
Nevertheless, history will be full of thy won- 
der-working days ; and future generations shall 
marvel and shudder at the recital of thy daring, 
impious, and horrible deeds. 



CHAP. V. 

1. Description of the Land of Albion, and of the goad 

King that reigneth over the same* — 2. His Throne*— 

3. Description also of the Tree which had grown and 

flourished in this Land, for many generations, and of 

the goodly fruits thereof. 

And it came to pass in those days, that 
there were a people who dwelt in a land called 
Albion, which is an island in the sea, and over- 
against the coast of the land of Gaul. 

2 

And lo, and behold, deep and mighty waters 
encompass the land of Albion as with a shield, 
and the people who dwell therein. 

3 

Now it had pleased the Lord, not to deliver 

this people into the hands of the Gauls, nor to 

put them under the yoke of the tyrant of the 

earth. 

4 
And over this people there had reigned for 

many days and years a good king, who feared 


the Lord and kept his commandments, and 
who walked uprightly before the Lord his God. 

5 
And it had pleased the Lord to bless this 
good king, and the people over whom he had 
been appointed to reign, in gentleness and 
mercy. 

6 
And the Lord had given unto him many sons 
and daughters, and a valiant, loving, and faith- 
ful people. 

And the people never ceased shouting aloud 
all day long, " O king, live for ever !" 

8 
And this good king was called Albanus, 
which was also the name of his forefathers, who 
had reigned in the old times before him. 

9 
And behold on the crown of the king, which 
was a golden crown, and set round with pre- 
cious stones, there were written, Moderation 
and Mercy. 

10 
Justice and Truth shone in his countenance ; and from his heart proceeded Religion, 
Piety, and Devotion. 

11 

In his right hand he held a sword, whereon 
was written Defence, and in his left hand 
he held a trident, whereon were engraven in let- 
ters of Gold, these words, " The Dominion 
cc of the Sea ;" for it had pleased the Lord 
to commit unto him the Sovereignty of the 
ocean. 

12 

And under his throne there were two foot- 
stools ctf Gold, and on the one footstool, 
there were engraven Freedom and Security, and on the other Wealth and Hap- 
piness, signifying, that wheresoever the power 
and Dominion of this good king prevailed, these 
blessings would fall to the lot of the happy 
land. 

13. 

And in the land of Albion, there grew and 

flourished, in peace and happiness, that Tree, 
which the other nations of the world had been 
foolishly endeavouring to plant and rear, amidst 
ruin and desolation, and in seas of blood. 



And this tree, which was of the nature of an 
oak, had been planted for many ages, and had 
fixed its root in the very centre of the land. 

15 

Now, it had become a fair, beautiful, and 
mighty tree, and its trunk was like unto a rock, 
in thickness and solidity, and its branches, 
which reached even unto the clouds, extended 
to the remotest corners of the land. 

16 

And the blessing of God was upon the tree, 
and whosoever took shelter under its branches, 
and its leaves, found the shade thereof, safe, 
cool, and peaceful. 

17 

And the sap and fruit of the tree were good 
and nourishing, and not poisonous like unto the 
sap of that evil tree, which had been planted 
by the hands of the ungodly in other lands ; 
but which had perished with their ways. 

18 

Now the root of this fair tree, which struck 
deep into the land, was cherished and enriched 
with the blood, and warmed with the ashes of 


the brave and good men, the forefathers of the 
Albions, who had either lived in its support, or 
died in its defence. 

19 
And the trunk of the tree, which meaneth 
the constitution of the state, representeth the 
whole nation, or people of the land. 

20 
And from the trunk of the tree, there spring- 
eth and divergeth four mighty branches. 

21 
And the first branch is called royal, because 
it representeth the descent and race of the kings 
of the land. 

22 
And the second is called holy, because it re- 
presenteth the church and priesthood of the 
land. 

23 
And the third is called noble, because it de- 
noteth the descent and race of the nobles of the 
land. 

24 
And the fourth and last branch, denoteth the 
representatives, or counsellors of the people. 


And from each of these four great bran- 
ches, there issue others, and the fruit which 
is produced by the tree is emblematical of re- 
ligion and piety, kingly greatness and good- 
ness, nobleness of birth and deed, freedom, o- 
bedience to the laws, security, wealth, and hap- 
piness. 

26 

Now, behold these four great branches, which 
spring in manner foresaid from the main 
trunk of the tree, after diverging and separating 
from each other, towards the east and west, 
north, and south, come again together, and are 
re-united with a crown, made of oak, olive, 
myrtle, and laurel. 

27 
And the sun-beams of heaven, and the dews 
thereof, and the spirits of departed patriots, che- 
rish and nourish this tree, which is seemly to 
behold, and fair to look upon. 

28 
Now, all the people of Albion rejoiced, and 
were exceeding glad under the tree, as their 


forefathers had been in the old times before 
them ; and many persons in like manner came 
from afar, and from distant lands, to take shel- 
ter, and be happy under this blessed tree, and 
to partake of the goodly fruits thereof. 

29 
And a loud and warning voice spake, and said, 
" O people of Albion, beware, for whosoever 
shall apply the hatchet to the trunk, or mighty 
branches of this fair and beautiful tree, shall be 
deemed guilty of parricide." 

30 
" For the sap of the tree is of the blood 
of your fathers, which was shed in training 
and defending it, and which it imbibed in its 
growth.' ' 

31 
cc And from the bleeding wounds which the 
unhallowed hand may inflict upon the tree, 
there shall issue a pestilential and devouring 
flame, which shall desolate the land, and con- 
sume the people who dwell therein." 



CHAP. VI. 

1 . How the people of Albion resisted the temptations of 
the idol—%. Are hated by the Gauls, and the tyrant 
Napoleon, who plotteth their destruction, and swear- 
eth vengeance against them, and their good king 
Alb anus. 

Now, it so happened, that amongst this hap- 
py and blessed people, there had been few 
worshippers of the first idol of the Gauls, that 
was called Licentiousness, and which was over- 
thrown, as before written, by the power of Na- 
poleon, the second idol ; and it had pleased the 
Lord to convert the hearts of those few, and 
they repented them of their wickedness, and 
espied the danger and error of their evil ways, 
and rejoiced in their hearts, that the coming to 
pass of their foolish dreams, and vain imagina- 
tions, had been averted by the hand of God ; 
therefore, it seemed good unto the Lord, not 
to deliver this people into the hands of their 
enemies. 



2 
For the king of the Albions, and his coun- 
sellors, perceived from the beginning the iniqui- 
ty and deformity of the first idol, and they 
warned the Albions, and all nations to beware 
thereof; but the evil spirit, had, as before writ- 
ten, hardened the hearts, and darkened the un- 
derstandings, of other nations, so they listened 
not unto the voice of wisdom and of counsel. 

3 
But it had pleased the Lord to open the 
hearts, and enlighten the understanding of the 
people of Albion, and they resisted the tempta- 
tions of the idol, feared the Lord, and honour- 
ed the king. 

4 
Therefore the Lord blessed them in their 
store, and in their outgoings and incomings ; 
and behold every man worshipped under his 
own vine, and under his own fig-tree, and there 
was no one to make him afraid. 

5 
And it came to pass, that the Gauls took of- 
fence at this good king, and his chosen people, 
because they mocked and despised the idol, and 
cleaved unto the only true God. 

6 
So they swore enmity against good king Al- 
banus, the king of the Albions, and his people, 
and raged against them furiously, and threaten- 
ed to overthrow them, and smite them from off 
the face of the earth. 

7 
And it moreover came to pass, that after the 
overthrow of the first idol, the second idol, 
which was the man Napoleon, threatened to do 
so in like manner, for he hated good king Al- 
banus, and his people, with exceeding great 
hatred; because they had stood fast against 
him, and had foretold his cunning and deceit, 
and evil designs, unto the surrounding nations, 
who had fallen victims to the dominion of the 
idol, by reason of the deafness of their ears, 
and the iniquity and stubborness of their 
hearts. 

8 
Now, Napoleon grieved sore at the prospe- 
rity and happiness of good king Albanus, and 
his people; and amidst all his victories, and although surrounded with pomp, majesty, and 
power, nevertheless envy, wrath, and revenge, 
lurked and burned within him, even unto the 
exceeding great bitterness of his soul. 

9 
And it came to pass that his wrath and in- 
dignation could no longer be concealed, there- 
fore it burst forth like unto a smothered 

flame ; and he summoned his cunning and wise 
wen, and the captains of his hosts together, and 
counselled with them, and plotted tbe overthrow 
and destruction of good king Albanus, and 
his happy, free, and faithful people. 

10 
And when the wise men, and the captains of 
the hosts of the Gauls, were assembled together, 
they prostrated themselves before the throne of 
the idol Napoleon, who spake unto them these 
words: 


"Wise men and counsellors ! by means of your 

wisdom and counsel, which reacheth from the 
earth beneath unto the heaven above, aided 
by my own immeasurable genius and fortune, 
hajthtbfts mighty throno been, *aised» qn which 


you now behold me, seated in awful majesty 
and power, encircled and surrounded by many 
lesser thrones, principalities, and powers, of 
my own creation, and all acknowledging and 
paying homage and obeisance unto me

" Brave captains of my numerous and invinci- 
Ue hosts, companions of my many and diitfui 
battles, sharers of my victories, and my glory 5 
by means of your skill and courage in war, un~ 
der my auspices, nation after nation, and 
people after people, have been conquered and 
overthrown ; and many kings, princes, and po- 
tentates, once great and glorious, but now hum- 
bled and fallen, have become tributary unto 
me, and have been delivered into my hand." 

13 

"The measure of my happiness and ambition 
would thus appeal* unto you to be full, but 
there is yet one king, and one people, that 
while he reigns, and they live, my rising 
up, and my down laying, my outgoing, and 
incoming, shall be unto me gall and bitterness. 9 * 

14 

So the wise men and counsellors, and the 

captains of the hosts, lifted up their voices a- 
loud and exclaimed, " Speak thy pleasure, O 
mighty Conqueror." 

15 

So Napoleon yet again opened his mouth and 
spake, and said unto them, " Yea verily, while 
king Albanus reigns, and his people live, the 
measure of my ambition shall not be filled, 
nor the greatness and happiness of your king 
completed, for unto the dominion over the land, 
which has been given unto me, must be added 
the dominion over the sea also." 

16 

" Go therefore, ye wise and cunning men, 
and counsel together, and obtain for me " ships, 
commerce, and colonies" and cause forests to be 
hewn down, and let artificers build ships and 
vessels in my many harbours ; and go also in 
like manner, ye captains of my mighty and 
numerous hosts, and lead powerful armies to 
the sea-coast, which is over against the land of 
the Albions, and pass over to the land there- 
of, in the ships and vessels which shall be so 
built." 


17 
cc And having passed over the sea which divid- 
eth the land of Gaul from the land of Albion, 
slay the people thereof, with ignominious and 
bloody deaths, sack and burn their cities, towns, 
and villages, and pillage their houses, for my 
wrath against this people is exceeding great." 

18 
" And ye shall make the land desolate and 
barren like unto a wilderness, and I will reward 
you with the spoils and great riches thereof." 

19 

" And ye shall lead the sons and daughters 
of the Albions into captivity, and not a vestige 
shall be left of this once great, rich, and pow- 
erful people, save in the record of my mighty 
deeds/ 

20 

And when the wise men, and counsellors, 
and the captains of the hosts of Napoleon, heard 
these things, they were sorely troubled and af- 
flicted at heart ; for they did not know in what 
manner they should pass over the sea, which 
divideth the land of Gaul from the land of Al- 
bion, because they had neither ships nor vessels wherein to pass over the sea, which was 
deep and mighty, and over which king Albanus already had the dominion. 

21 
But they durst not gainsay Napoleon, never- 
theless they rose and went away, griered and 
troubled in spirit, shouting with their lips, while 
their hearts were far from him, " O Emperor, 
live for ever!" 



CHAP. VII. 

1. The Threat* of the Gawls, and of the Tyrant, come to 
the ears of the Albions, who accordingly make mighty 
preparations ta resist their foes. — 2. The people of Ah 
bion cleave to their king and native land, and rise as 
one man to oppose the Tyrant and his hosts, who dread 
the sea and the valour of the Albions, by sea and land. 

And when the tidings of these things, and 
the threatenings of the mighty conqueror, came 
to the ears of good king Albanus, he called to- 
gether his counsellors and his nobles, and the 
great assembly of the nation, and the captains 
of his fleets and of his armies, to take counsel 
concerning the safety and defence of the fend. 


But io and behold* when the people of Al- 
bion heard and saw the danger of their beloved 
king, and of the land of their fathers, and of 
the numberless and invaluable blessings which 
it had pleased God to bestow upon thetn, they 
rose of their own accord, as one man, and 
tendered unto the king their bodies and lives, 
without money and without price, to serve as a 
bulwark, and as a wall of defence arotind his 
throne, and the land over which he had ruled 
for many years in gentleness and mercy. 

3 

Now noble, and ignoble, rich ^and poor, 
young and old, yea almost all the males of the 
land of Albion, took up arms together and 
mingled in the ranks, and filled the hosts of 
king Albanus $ until they became like unto the 
mighty and resistless river of the valley, which 
fed by many torrents from the mountains, after 
it hath rained, and the windows of heaven have 
been opened for many days, overfloweth its 
banks* and covereth the wide plain. 

4 

Now when good king Albanus saw his brave and loving subjects of all ranks and conditions, 
rally around him in this manner, as never men 
had done before, his heart was moved with gladness, and he wept from the joy thereof* 

5 
But behold the tears which he shed were not 
tears of sorrow, for they were mixed with 
gratitude to God, for his exceeding goodness, 
and love to his people, for their exceeding affection. 

6 
In like manner the ships and fleets of good 
king Albanus, multiplied exceedingly in number, and the captains, sailors, and mariners 
thereof, were brave, and bold as lions. 

7 
Now, it came to pass, that numerous fleets 
and ships went forth, and great battles were 
fought on the face of the mighty waters, which 
wash the foundations of the round world; but, 
as before written, it had pleased the Lord 
to give unto good king Albanus, the dominion over the sea, and the brave captains of 
his ships, and his fleets, and the invincible 
sailors and mariners thereof, careless of the 


dangers of the deep, and of the terrible storms 
of heaven, mixed in direful conflict with 
the ships and fleets of the Gauls, and other na- 
tions, and either sunk them in the mighty wa- 
ters, burned and destroyed them on the face 
thereof, or carried them in triumph into the har- 
bours of the land of Albion. 

8 
And the power of good king Albanus continued to encrease on the mighty deep, and no 
ship dared to appear, or be seen, on the face 
thereof, save by his permission ; and when the 
Gauls, and the other nations upon earth, saw 
and beheld the greatness of the deeds of the 
captains and sailors of good king Albanus, they 
marvelled one with another, and were sore 
afraid, 

9 
And when the captains and officers of the 
fleets and armies of the Albions fell in the midst 
of the battles and victories of their country, the 
king rewarded their wives, children, and kins- 
men, with honour, wealth* and power, and mo- 
numents were raised in remembrance of their 
glorious deeds. 


And, in like manner, when the sailors, sol- 
diers, and mariners, fell in the same good cause, 
their wives, children, and kinsmen* were also 
taken care of, and cherished by their country, 
with exceeding great love and affection ; so that 
every man rejoiced, and gloried to die in de- 
fence of his native land. 

11 

Now, when Napoleon beheld his ships and 
fleets taken and destroyed, as above written, 
and that the. armies of king Albanus had 
multiplied like unto the sands of the sea* 
and covered the whole coast opposite to the 
land of Gaul, he was exceeding wroth, and 
swore and blasphemed, because he foresaw that 
the Lord would not deliver this king and his 
people into his hands, after the manner of other 
nations, who had been seduced by his crafts 
and subtleties, and had been accordingly pu- 
nished for their great unrighteousness* 

12 

And, in like manner, when the captains and 
soldiers, of the hosts of the Gauls, saw that 
the sea which divideth the land of Gaul from
the land of Albion, was exceeding mighty 
and deep, and that there were no ships where- 
in to pass over the same, and that the domini- 
on over the sea was altogether in the hands of 
king Albanus, their hearts failed them. 

13 
And moreover, when the Gauls saw that great 
and powerful armies were drawn up on the coast 
of Albion, ready to drive them and their tyrant 
back again into the sea, and overwhelm them 
therein, they abated and assuaged in their 
pride and vain boasting, and sought to tarry on 
the dry land, whereon they were encamped, and 
had pitched their tents. 


CHAP. VIII. 

1. The ships of war which carried the army of the Gauls 
into Egypt are destroyed in a dreadful battle, by a 
Captain of the navy of King Albanus. — 2. The armies 
of the Albions thereafter defeat those of the Gauls 
wheresoever they meet. — 3. The Albions rescue the 
land of Egypt from the Gauls. — 4. The chief of the 
army of the Albions falls in battle. — 5. The Gauls are 
afterwards defeated by the Albions in the land of Ca- 
labria. 

And it came to pass, that the fleet of king 
Albanus followed to the coast of Egypt, the 
ships of war which had carried the army of the 
Gauls, under Napoleon, to the land thereof. 

2 

Now, the Gauls had drawn up their ships in 
battle array, near unto the shore, therefore 
they bade defiance to the fleet of the Albions. 

3 

But the leader thereof was a brave and daunt- 
less man, and he fell upon the ships of the 
Gauls, and took and destroyed almost the 
whole thereof, and killed the chief captain of 
their fleet. 

4 

And when Napoleon, and his army, saw 
these things, they were sorely troubled and dis- 
mayed, and bade a long farewell to the land of 
their fathers. 

5 

Nevertheless they went on as before written, 
and conquered the land of Egypt, and threat- 
ened the holy city. 

6 

Soon thereafter, Napoleon having forsaken 
his army in this distant land, suddenly return- 
ed to Gaul, having escaped the ships of the Al- 
bions, which were laying in wait to take him 
prisoner ; but it did not at this time please the 
Lord to deliver him into the hands of the Al- 
bums. 

7 
And it came to pass, in like manner, that an 
army of the Albions followed the army of the 
Gauls into the land of Egypt. 

8 
And the Gauls came down to the sea coast 
to oppose the Albions ; but being unable to 
resist the valour of the hosts thereof the Al- 
bions gained the dry land, and encamped 
thereon. 

9 
Soon thereafter a pitched battle was fought 
betwixt the two armies, in a plain near unto the 
city of Alexandria. 

10 
And it pleased the Lord to give unto the Albions the victory over their enemies, whom they 
overthrew with terrible slaughter. 

11 
But the Albions lost many men of valour, 
captains as well as soldiers, and the land of 
Pharaoh, and the inhabitants thereof, even unto 
this day, bear testimony to their glory. 

12 
Alas ! there fell on that day, the chief leader 
of the army of the Albions, an aged warrior of 
great renown. 

13 
His hoary head was laid low on the plain, 
and his grey hairs mingled with the sands of 
Egypt. 


14 
Nevertheless, his spirit ascended on high on 
the wings of victory, and his fame flew abroad 
amongst the sons of men. 

15 
His precious remains were not buried in a 
strange land ; but were restored by a loving ar- 
my, to an admiring king and people. 

16 
While the Nile, the father of waters, conti- 
nueth to flow, so long shall the fame of this 
aged warrior flourish in his native land, and in 
the land of Egypt, which he delivered from its 
enemies. 

17 

Again it came to pass, that another pitched 
battle was fought in the land of Calabria, be- 
twixt the Albions and Gauls, and again it plea- 
sed the God of battles to give the victory unto 
the Albions. 

18 

For as the Albions were invincible, so in like 
manner were they incorruptible, and the gold 
and silver, and precious things wherewith the 
tyrant had corrupted the chiefs and soldiers of 
other nations, he dared not tender unto those 
of Albion, knowing well, that they would 
spurn them with disdain and indignation. 

19 
Now the renown of the armies of the Albions, 
and of their chiefs, spread abroad throughout 
the earth, and was a terror unto their enemies. 



CHAP. IX, 

1. The dominion of the Tyrant extendeth itself upon the 
face of the earth. — 2. He continueth to deceive the 
Kings and Princes thereof \ and the people over whom 
they reigned. — 3. Some are overthrown by openforce r 
others soothed and beguiled, until a convenient season 
arrivethfor their complete and final destruction* 

Now, the tyrant Napoleon continued to ex- 
tend his dominion, and, as before written, na- 
tion after nation, and people after people, came 
one by one under the yoke of his power. 

2 

And he used soothings and blandishments 
with one king or prince, until he directed the 
whole of his mighty fprce against another, and 
thereby overthrew him, and blotted him, and 
his people, from amongst the number of the na- 
tions, and kings of the earth. 

3 

But when a suitable season arrived, he broke 
faith with the king, or prince, to whom he had 
pretended friendship, and whom under false 
. promises and assurances he had soothed and de- 
ceived. 

4 

And behold there was a queen, whQ had of- 
ten paid unto the tyrant a ransom for the safe- 
ty and preservation of herself and her kingdom : 
But this tyrant, not satisfied with ransom after 
ransom, aimed at the subjugation of this queen, 
and her kingdom. 

5 

And it so happened, that this queen posses- 
sed dominions in a far distant country, which is 
separated from the land in which she dwelt by 
great and mighty seas. 

Foreseeing therefore, and being foretold, the 
destruction which awaited her, and the land 
wherein she lived, she, and the prince her son, 
gathered together many ships, and much trea- 
sure, and all the nobles and people that were 
willing to seek shelter in this far distant coun- 
try, and flee from the yoke of the tyrant, and 
the evil which was to come. 

7 
In like manner, good king Albanus, and his 
people, sent ships to assist this queen, and her 
prince, nobles, and people, in eschewing the 
evil wherewith they were threatened. 

8 
So they went into the ships that were thus 
prepared for them, and were wafted over the 
great ocean unto this far distant land, abound- 
ing in gold, and silver, and precious stones, 
wherein a new and mighty empire, beyond the 
reach of the tyrant, is now founded, under the 
dominion of this queen, and the prince her 
son. 

9 
And behold the sails of their vessels were 
scarcely spread to the winds of heaven, when 
the hosts of the tyrant were seen in many thousands, covering as a devouring flame the native 
land which the inhabitants thereof had been 
obliged to forsake for succour and for safety. 

10 

Nevertheless, they were beyond the reach of 
their enemies, being upon the sea, and under 
the protection of the invincible navy of king 
Albanus. 

11 

And the tyrant seized upon another, and 
still more powerful kingdom, which had for 
many years aided him and his designs, with its 
bipod and its treasure, and he laid hold of its 
towns, and cities, and covered the land with 
his hosts. 

12 

And he stole the king thereof, his queen and 
the prince their son, and led them into capti- 
vity. 

13 

And he placed on the throne, on which this 
king and his forefathers had sat for many gene - 
rations, a near kinsman, yea a brother of his 
own, who had no right or title thereto. 


And the people of this oppressed kingdom, 
rose up against the deceitful tyrant, and de- 
manded that their king, queen, and prince, and 
the freedom of the land should be restored un- 
to them. 

15 

But the tyrant was inexorable, and he sent 
still greater and more powerful hosts against 
the people, and slew all those that were found 
in arms. 


And he crowned his brother, and made him 
ruler over this people, while the streets of their 
cities were yet reeking with the blood of the 
brave defenders of their lawful king and native 
land. 

17 
Now good king Albanus, and his people, 
had sent fighting men and treasure, and all 
manner of warlike instruments to. the assistance 
of this oppressed country ; but the power and 
quickness of the tyrant, and his skill in war 
were exceeding great, and he overthrew the 



armies of the captive king, before those of the 
Albions could come up to their aid. 

18 
And, lo! when the tyrant beheld an ar- 
my of good king Albanus on his own side of 
the sea, he rejoiced in his heart, and profane- 
ly said; tfk Now it hath pleased the Lord to give 
me vengeance against this king, and his peo- 
ple, for I shall put their hosts to the sword, and 
not a man amongst them shall return to his na- 
tive land, to tell the direful tidings." 

19 
" In the land of Albion I shall cause streams 
of tears to flow." 

20 
" Her mothers shall bewail their youthful 
and warlike sons slain by Gallic swords." 

21 
" Her helpless orphans shall lisp and weep 
the fall of many a fond father." 

»2 . '• 

So he hastened together, • by long and tire- 
some marches, his desperate and blood-thirsty 
legions, and flew from the capital of his mighty 

empire, and put himself at the head of his ar- 
mies. 

23 

But behold the hosts of the Albions had, ere 
this, landed on the tyrant's side of the sea, and had 
overthrow none of his armies with great slaught- 
er, and had caused them to quit the country 
of the exiled queen, wherein they then were, 
and whereupon they had unlawfully seized in 
manner above written. 

24 

And in this battle the skill of the chiefs and 
captains, and the valour of the soldiers of king 
Albanus shone exceedingly ; yea truly to their 
own immortal glory, and the terror and dismay 
of their enemies. 

25 

Now it so happened, that the tyrant continu- 
ed to wax exceeding wroth, and again swore, 
that not a man of this army of the Albions 
should ever return to his native land. 

26 

Nevertheless, he advanced not against them 
himself; but sent one of the captains of his hosts, 

with a numerous army, to drive the Albions 
into the sea, while he looked on afar off. 

27 

But the brave captain who led the army of 
good king Albanus first into the country, to 
succour the inhabitants thereof, and thereafter 
back unto the coast, through dangers and diffi- 
culties, greater than ever army had met be- 
fore, bade defiance to the hosts of the Gauls, 
and when he came to the sea-side, he gave 
them battle, and covered the plain with their 
dead. 

28 

They retreated, terrified and appalled, nor 
did they seek further to [molest the Albions, 
whom they permitted to go into the ships which 
were prepared to receive them. 

29 
But, alas 1 in this glorious, but direful battle, 
there fell many valiant men, and in the midst 
of them, covered with glory, and crowned with 
victory, their brave and skilful chief, whose 
name now stands high in the temple of Fame. 

30 
And the king of the Albions, and all his people mourned exceedingly over the fall of this 
great man. 

31 

Nay, the very enemy which he had conquer- 
ed, gave testimony of the admiration and re- 
verence in which they held the warlike virtues 
of this departed hero. 

32 

Nevertheless, it pleased the Lord to deliver 
for a time, this devoted land, and the dwellers 
therein, into the hands of the tyrant, who con- 
quered the same, and kept the king, queen, and 
prince thereof, in dreary and sorrowful capti- 
vity. 

33 

But a voice coming as it were from heaven, 
spake and said, " O people of Iberia, be of good 
courage, and persevere in your noble and pa- 
triotic exertions in behalf of your king and na- 
tive land, under the happy assurance, that by 
the blessing of Providence, they shall be crowned 
with ultimate and glorious success.'* 




CHAP. X. 

1. Wise Counsellors , and mighty Captains of hosts and 
of ships , with whom it pleased the Lord to bless King 
Albanus. — 2. He is deprived of some of them by death* 
— 3. Lamentations for the loss thereof 

Now, as before written, it had pleased the 
Lord in these latter and troublesome times, to 
bless good king Albanus, with great statesmen, 
and counsellors, excelling in wisdom, and in 
speech. 

2 

And behold, the king and his people looked 
up to those men for succour and for safety, un- 
der the blessing of Providence, against the mis- 
chievous machinations of the cunning tyrant, 
and the dangers wherewith the nation was en- 
vironed. 

3 

But behold it pleased the Lord to remove 
from this lower world, several of those great and 
excellent statesmen. 

4 

Their earthly remains were, amidst the lamentations of sorrowing, and admiring friends, 
deposited in the silent, and almost mutual grave. 

5 
The memory of their excellences shall never- 
theless live for ever in the bosom of posterity ! 

6 
Their glorious spirits shall shine as bright 
stars in the firmament of fame ! 

7 

And behold it is the prayer of the king and 
his people, that succeeding counsellors may 
be inspired with the same patriotism and wis- 
dom, which distinguished those sage men now 
no more. 

8 

That the radiant and resplendent brilliancy 
of their great souls, may serve as a light or bea- 
con, to direct the counsels and actions of those, 
who now, or in time coming, may be placed 
at the helm of the state. 

9 
And the king and all the people prayed, that 
the guardian and angel spirit of pure and un- 
polluted patriotism, might direct the counsels 
of the land of Albion, during the perils and 
troubles wherewith it was beset on every side. 


10 
As before written, it had in like manner pleas- 
ed the Lord, to deprive this king and his peo- 
ple, of mighty and renowned chiefs and cap- 
tains of hosts and fleets, who fell in the midst 
of glory and of victory, 

11 
And amongst the captains of the fleets of the 
Albions, there was a man, whose name was 
known in the remotest corner of the earth, and 
who was an exceeding terror unto all the ene- 
mies of his country. 

12 
Now this man pursued even unto utter de- 
struction all the ships on the face of the ocean, 
that bade defiance unto those of king Albanus. 

13 
His fame waxed exceeding great, and all the 
ends of the earth bore witness unto it. 

14 
By the blessing of God he broke in twain, 
with terrible overthrow, the leagues and com- 
binations that were plotting by the tyrant, and 
his satellites, against king Albanus and his 

people, and drove them like chaff before the 
wind. 

They vanished at his presence, as does the 
morning vapour before the bright beams of the 
sun ; or like the dark cloud, when it is burst 
asunder, and scattered by the lightning and 
the tempest. 

16 

Now it came to pass,, that the ships of the 
Gauls, and of their allies, gathered together, 
yet once more, and tempted to battle the fleets 
of good king Albanus, which were commanded 
by this mighty man of war. 

17 
And when they were thus gathered together, 
he fell upon them, and overthrew them, with 
terrible destruction ; and lo ! hardly a single 
ship escaped from his fiiry. 

18 
And he gave the carcases of the enemies of 
his country unto the fowls of heaven, and the 
fishes of the sea. 

19 
For lo and behold, the face of the mighty 
deep was covered with thousands of their 
slain. 

20 

But, alas ! in the midst of this direful con- 
flict, the great captain of the fleet of the Al- 
bions fell ! 

21 

His departing spirit flew on high, on the gol- 
den wings of victory, and took up its abode in 
the mansions of immortal glory ! 

22 

And lo ! as the hero fell, the ocean heaved a 
sigh of lamentation, for she had rejoiced to bear 
on her mighty billows a warrior of such great re- 
nown, and who had for many years been the 
companion of her wondrous ways. 

23 

She had witnessed the calmness of his soul, 
amidst the ragings of the hideous storms and 
tempests which trouble her great waters. 

24 

She had moreover admired his exceeding 
skill and valour, in the terrible battles which he 
had fought and conquered, in the various climes 
to which she had borne him in proud triumph, 

to the confusion and dismay of the enemies of 
his country. 

25 
So also the hearts of those valiant sailors and 
mariners, which no tempest had ever appalled, 
and which no foe had ever daunted, melted in- 
to sorrow. 

26 
For lo ! the sailors and mariners of Albion, 
wept over the fall of their adored chief, now no 
more ! 

27 
Behold the banners of many nations, con- 
quered on the deep, shroud the proud tomb of 
the hero ! 

28 
And king Albanus, and all his people, in 
like manner, lamented the fall of this matchless 
man. 

29 
His resplendent spirit shines as a polar star 
in the bright firmament of fame ! 

SO 
It is in the midst of a group of departed heroes, and many there be amongst the warrior? 
of the Albions, now on earth, who press eager- 
ly to join this glorious constellation by aiming 
at the palm of victory and renown. 

31 
And behold, when the tidings of the death of 
these great counsellors and warriors of the Al- 
bions, reached the ears of Napoleon, who hated 
and feared them in his heart, he grinned a 
smile of devilish gladness. 

32 
Such as is to be seen on the meagre visage of 
the spectre of death, when his hungry eye sur- 
veys a field of battle, heaped with innumerable 
slain. 

33 
Or such a smile, as Satan, the enemy of 
mankind, is supposed to grin, when good and 
holy men are removed from this lower world ; 
whose pious example, and virtuous struggles, 
had saved thousands of their fellow-creatures, 
from his hellish grasp. 


CHAP. XL 

1. The Oak of Albion. — % He claimeth the sovereignty 
of the Wood and of the Flood. 

Now the oak, when he. reared his proud head 
in the forests of Albion, thus spake unto the 
other trees thereof : 

2 
€€ Behold, arising in the midst of you, the 
monarch of the wood, and of the flood also !" 

3 
" When this adamantine trunk, and these 
brawny arms of mine; shall have outlived an 
hundred years, and ten thousand storms, I shall 
only fall to rise more glorious \" 

4 
" Then shall I become as a mighty castle on 
the deep, riding triumphant on the billow and 
in the storm !" 

5 
" In my stupendous bosom shall be contain- 
ed an host of heroes, hardy and invincible as 
myself, proof against the storm and the tem- 
pest." 

6 
" From my dark irony sides the dauntless sons 
of Albion shall dart the lightning, and hurl the 
thunder-bolt." 

7 

" The oak of other lands, when it shall come 
into contact with me, and the warriors within 
me, shall be as the Cyprus ; a coffin, in which 
the enemy of Albion shall either find a burn- 
ing, or a watery grave." 

8 

" Around the isle of Albion I shall ride as a 
guardian and protecting angel ; but unto dis- 
tant and hostile lands I shall carry terror and 
dismay." 

" When I shall glide in proud majesty along 
the sea-girt side of my native mountain or val- 
ley, let the oak of Albion behold from afar her 
kindred king, and hasten to be like unto him in 
majesty and power, and let all the trees of the 
forest in submission wave their humbler heads." 

Now when the oak of Albion had ceased 
speaking, all the trees of the forest gave a nod 
of obeisance unto him ; nay, the oaks of other 
lands did so in like manner. 

11 

Yea all the people of the earth were compel- 
led to proclaim the oak of Albion the chiefest 
among trees, the monarch of the wood, and 
of the tide also. 

12 

And those who fought within his wooden 
walls, and in his floating citadel, were pro- 
claimed in like manner by all the earth, with 
one assent, to be the boldest and bravest, nay, 
the very chiefest of heroes* 


CHAP. XII. 

I. The Kings and Princes of the earth are warned of the 
crafts and subtleties of the Tyrant. — 2. Virtue is rem 
commended as the only secure foundation of the king- 
doms of this earth, — 3, The solidity of the Empire of 
Almighty God ascribed amongst other things to the 
sense felt by created existence of the purity and holu 
ness of the Great Governor of all things* 

Emperors, kings, and princes, and all ye 
dwellers upon earth, beware of the crafts and 
subtleties of this hellish tyrant. 


For he intwineth himself like a serpent 
around those he meaneth to destroy, and whis- 
pereth soft, blandishing, and deceitful things in 
their ears, until a convenient season arriveth 
for stinging them to death. 

3 

He holds out a phial of oil and honey, with 
which he smoothes his way ; but when the 
hour of his action cometh, the cloven foot shew- 
eth itself, and forthwith are poured gall and 
wormwood, into those who had drunk of his 
sweet, but deceitful cup. 

His open force and warfare are not so much 
to be dreaded, as his secret machinations, and 
pretended friendships ; nor is the armour of the 
tyrant more terrible than his traiterous shield, 
and purple mantle. 

5 

Emperors, kings, princes, and people, fear 
the only true and living God, and keep his 
commandments and precepts, as revealed unto 
you in holy writ. 

6 

Be assured, that no earthly throne can be 
secure, and that no people can be safe or hap- 
py, unless religion and morality be the founda- 
tion and ground work thereof* 

7 
Behold, as the man who giveth himself up to 
unrighteousness is despised of men, and cometh 
to utter ruin and destruction, so in like manner 
doth the prince and his people. 


8 
If, therefore, the prince of a land be not re- 
ligious and virtuous, in the practice of his life, 
and if his people be not so in like manner, but 
on the contrary ; then be assured, the hour of 
their common destruction is most certainly at 
hand, and the Lord will either deliver them 
into the hands of their enemies, or afflict them 
with direful evils, such as civil war, pestilence, 
and famine. 

9 

Take example of these truths, O kings, 
princes, and people, from the events which have 
passed before you in your own days* 

10 

For year after year, nay, day after day, kings 
have been overthrown, and nations destroyed, 
because they were full of rottenness and corrup- 
tion, and had sunk into all manner of depravi- 
ty and wickedness. 

11 

It behoveth those, therefore, who expect to 
escape the general destruction that prevaileth, 
and the vengeance of a just and angry God, to 
consider what manner of men they are, and to 
amend their ways, so that they may in time 
coming, live a godly, religious, and sober life. 

12 

Ail men must confess, because they have 
seen it with their eyes, and heard it with their 
ears, and in their own times, that no rank, 
power, or wealth, however great and exalted, 
can supply the want of genuine virtue and mo- 
rality, or save from that ruin and contempt 
which fall on the heads of worthless and wick- 
ed men. 

13 

Vice and licentiousness overthrow the prince 
as well as the peasant, for the laws of a pure 
and just God know no distinction of persons. 

14 

Now, in proof of these doctrine?, hath it not 
so happened amongst the recent destruction of 
numerous kings and princes, the desolation of 
their empires, and punishment of their people, 
that the king who ruleth over the Albions is al- 
most the only one, among the other rulers of 
the earth, who has preserved his throne, and 
the love, affection, and admiration of his people ? 

15 
Say, therefore, whether the preservation of 
this king's throne, the love, affection, and ad- 
miration of his people, have not been the just 
reward of his piety and devotion, and of the 
many yirtues which adorn his character, all 
which are highly pleasing in the sight of God ? 

16 
Now, if the conception be not too great and 
daring for man, may not an example of this 
truth be drawn from the great Creator and Go- 
vernor of all things, the King of kings, and 
Lord of lords ? 

17 

¦ 

May not the eternal solidity of the inconceiv- 
able empire of Almighty God, and the un-» 
changeable harmony and obedience which per? 
vade all his wondrous works, derive as much 
strength from the universal adoration in which 
his unerring truth, his immaculate purity and 
holiness, and his inflexible justice are held, by 
created existence, as from the immensity and 
grandeur of his unmeasurable power ? 

18 

Behold all the rivers of the earth glide with 
one assent unto the sea, and the sea herself eb- 
beth and floweth at her stated periods and ap- 
pointed seasons ! 

The thunders roll, and the hills re-echo the 
terrible voice thereof! 

20 
The storm rageth on the face of the great 
waters, and in the darkness of the night ! 

21 
The mountains are shaken from their foun- 
dations, and laid low ; and the rallies are raised 
up in their stead ! 

22 
The sun, moon, and stars, perform their glorious and appointed revolutions, and all the 
works of creation proceed in beauteous and regular order ! 

23 
Ye rivers, why do ye glide into the ocean, 
sea, why dost thou ebb, and flow, and raise thy 
mighty billows to the skies ? 

24 
Ye mountains, why do ye tremble and sink 
low, ye vallies why are ye exalted ? 

25 
Ye thunders, why do ye roll ; how cometh 
it, ye storms, that ye rage on the mighty deep, 
and in the darkness of the night ? 

26 
Whence are thy glories, O sun, moon, and 
stars, and whence thy wondrous revolutions ? 

27 
And behold the sea and all the great works 

of nature rejoined, €€ In these things we feel 

and obey the conscious voice of a great and 

holy Creator, at whose word we tremble !" 

28 

" It is God, yea even our own God, that 

worketh all these marvellous deeds !" 

29 
Learn then, O man, that virtue and religion 
are the only true and solid pillars of the feeble 
fabrics erected by thee in this lower world. 

30 
That truth, holiness, and justice, are the pe- 
culiar attributes of thy God, and give immut- » 
able and eternal duration to all his great and 
wondrous works, which loudly proclaim a con- 
sciousness thereof. 



CHAP. XIII. 

1 The People of Albion are told of their increasing 
wickedness and licentiousness, and are admonished ac- 
cordingly. — 2. Their manners are inveighed against, 
and they are summoned to repentance and amendment 
of life 9 

Now it came to pass, that the first idol, 
namely Licentiousness, whereof mention is made 
in the beginning of this Book, began in these 
latter times to gain many worshippers and fol- 
lowers in the land of Albion. 

2 

Various kinds of wickedness, such as adul- 
tery, uncleanness, drunkenness, and the like, 
made progress in the land, and pervaded all 
ranks and conditions of people. 

3 

Many of the great and the rich, spent their 
time in nightly revels, and lived in the opea 
contempt and neglect of the holy ordinances of 
religion. 


Therefore they were hated and despised, by 
those of inferior station, who looked forward 
with eagerness to the time of their final over- 
throw and destruction. 

5 

Those of mean station, on the other hand, 
gave themselves up to drunkenness, and lying, 
the fruits whereof, are poverty and wretched 
ness, disease, theft, murder, and divers other 
crimes and evils. 

6 

By the great and the rich, day was turned 
into night, and night into day, and in this man- 
ner sober-mindedness was perverted and done 
away, and the regular ordinations of the Gover- 
nor of the universe outraged. 

7 
The sun, who came forth in the morning 
like a bridegroom from his eastern chamber, 
arrayed in all his dazzling glories, to cheer and 
enlighten a benighted world, to dissipate the 
dreary darkness of the night, and awaken drow- 
sy nature to joy and gladness'; found this gene- 
ration of bats and of owls, male and female, 
revelling in all manner of riot and licentious- 
ness. 

8 
The returning day chased them away, and 
compelled them to seek their lurking places, 
weary and worn out with their nightly^and dis- 
orderly vigils. 

9 

There again they wallow in listless, and de- 
praved effeminacy and luxury, until the glori- 
ous luminary of day has nearly gone down to 
his western chamber j leaving the pale moon, 
the companion of the silence of the night, to 
witness those things, which had shunned the 
test of the broad and brilliant day. 

10 

How comes it then, O man, that thou pre- 
ferrest the night to the day ? Is it because thy 
deeds are evil 

11 

But doth it not occur to thy mind, that be- 
sides depraving thy soul by doing so, thou more- 
over outragest and profanest the beauteous and 
regular ordinations of thy Creator, who has orr 
dained the sun to rule by day, and the moon 
to rule by night, and has given unto all things 
their appointed seasons ? 

12 

Say are thy days too long upon the land, 
that the sun is thus irksome unto thee, and that 
thou art desirous to foretaste the dreary night 
of death ? 

13 

What, O man, O guilty man, who thus in- 
sultest the orderly appointments of heaven, 
what would not thy consternation be, were the 
sun to loiter on his eastern couch, and the re- 
turn of morning to be withheld but for a little 
while beyond its appointed time, and thus to 
leave the world to utter darkness and dismay ? 

14 

Now, out of these nightly revels spring adul- 
tery, and many other deadly sins. 

15 

And the good and wise men of Albion be- 
held these evils spreading with fear and tremb- 
ling, because they had been the forerunners of 
the destruction of the nations which had fallen 
around them in their own days. 

16 
O adultery, thy wages on earth ought to be 
an ignominious death ! 

17 
Thou art indeed a deadly poison, a genuine 
murderer ! 

18 
Father, mother, children, friend ; nay, often 
whole nations cruelly perish through thy hellish 
influence ! 

19 
Stop then, O people of Albion, ere it be too 
late, the tide of your increasing wickedness, 
so as to avert the evils which have befallen other 
nations, and the vengeance that must infallibly 
overtake you in like manner, unless you accept 
of warning in due time. 

20 
Learn to appreciate and preserve the blessings 
which it hath pleased God in his infinite good- 
ness to bestow upon you. 

21 
Unto you have been given a pure religion, 
wholesome laws, a good and pious king. 

22 
The land in which you have been appointed 
to dwell, is girded round with a guardian ocean, 
over which you have obtained the dominion. 

23 
By means thereof, there is wafted to your 
shores, in innumerable ships, the produce of all 
the nations of the earth. 

24 
The sea which washeth your winding shores 
teems with fish, fit for the food and nourishment 
of man. 

25 
Your mountains are covered with sheep and 
cattle, and your vallies with rich crops of corn. 

26 
Peace and plenty reign in the land, and the 
people thereof ought to be exceeding glad, 

27 
For behold, the God of armies has turned the 
battle far from your gates ; and although the dire- 
ful contest may prevail in distant lands, yet the 
fields of Albion are free from the stain either of 
kindred or foreign blood, nor does the storm of 
war rage throughout the land. 

28 
Peaceful are her cities, towns, and villages, 
her cottages, and her shadowy and rural places. 

29 
Nor is the sound of the murderous cannon to 
be heard, nor the glittering of arms to be seen 
in any part of the land; save when the good tid- 
ings of victories gained' iii far countries, or 
on the mighty deep, are proclaimed, the natal 
day of good king Albanus commemorated, or 
the like. 

30 
For the battles of Albion are fought on the 
face of the mighty deep, and the din thereof is 
either drowned in the roaring billow and in the 
storm, or dies away on the smooth face of the wa- 
tery waste, for from the ear of the husbandman. 

31 
The streets of her cities do not reek with 
blood, nor are her' green pastures stained with 
gore. , 

32 
The blood of her enemies floweth and is dis- 
solved in the briny deep, which openeth itself to 
receive their carcases, and deliver them for pas* 
time to the ravenous fishes of the sea. 

33 

They are buried without the help of spqde or 
of shovel, and no pestilential breath can issue 
from their graves. 

34 

Far different the people of other lands, whose 
cities, towns, and villages, are burnt and destroy- 
ed, and whose cottages and fertile fields are laid 
waste amidst the ravages of devouring armies. 

35 

Whose rivers are choked, and whose plains 
are heaped with the unburied slain, from whose 
putrifying corpses issue ten thousand diseases, 
and as many deaths. 

36 

If, O people of Albion, ye are truly desirous 
of preserving and enjoying the many and inva- 
luable blessings which the goodness of Provi- 
dence has vouchsafed to you, be thankful unto 
God the giver. 

37 
Be ye righteous and hold fast your integrity, 
otherwise, as before written, ruin and desolation 
must infaffiably come upon the land, and the 
inhabitants thereof. 



CHAP. XIV. 

1, A mighty storm ariseth* — 2. The. vessel of the State is 
in danger of perishing* — 3. A wise and good Counsellor 
pilots the vessel, and weathers the storm. — 4. Tke ves- 
sel is brought into a safe harbour; but the pilot there* 
of die thy through his endeavours to save the vessel* 

Now, the passions of men, when they burst 
the bonds of true religion, and of the ancient 
and venerable laws of their fathers, may be 
likened unto the tempest, and whirlwind, the 
hail and the storm, when it pleaseth the Ruler 
thereof to let them loose from their abodes. 

2 

So in these latter days, religion being despised 
of men, and the laws of their fathers being in 
like manner contemned, tumult prevailed 
throughout the earth, and great was the devas- 
tation thereof. 

3 

Behold the clouds gather together, and become as utter darkness, the winds blow, and the 
sea is moved from her bed ! 

4 
The vessels of many states are set adrift, and 
lose themselves in this tempestuous ocean. 

And lo ! for a season the vessel of the state of 
Albion, the favoured of Heaven, is driven from 
her anchor into this sea of troubles 1 

6 

Now the safe haven is seen no more, and the 
firm land disappears ! 

7 
The storm of anarchy rages throughout the 
earth, and blows with mighty fury. 

8 
Dreadful is the conflict, and terrible the up- 
roar of human passions run mad ! 

9 
Now the angry and impetuous billow raises 
the vessel to the skies, now it precipitates her 
into the watery valley. 

11 
Now she is hid in clouds and darkness, her timbers crack, and her sails shiver in the storm ! 

12 
And the king and people, and all that are in 
the vessel, cry aloud, " we shall surely perish." 

13 
Lo ! the vessel is no longer to be seen, save 
when the lightning's gleam shews her in pe- 
ril, and depicts the dreary abyss, wherein she is 
tossed to and fro. 

14 
Behold ! that short-lived vivid torch of heaven; 
it shows a pilot at the helm ! 

15 
Lo ! his eagle eye is fixed on the polar star of 
ancient and venerable truth, for which he firm- 
ly steers ! . 

Now, he casts a smile of contumely on the 
scorn of men, and bids the tempest of their 
passions hush ! 

17 
The spirits of the ancients of the land behold, 
from above, with anxious eye, the danger of 
the vessel wherein they had been happily wafted through their mortal state. 

18 
So they whispered to the pilot, amidst the 
jarring of the elements, and the crashing of 
empires; " Courage, and be of good cheer, O 
pilot, for thou shalt weather the storm, and bring 
the vessel committed to thy charge into a safe 
haven I" 

19 
Now the storm lasted for many days, and 
many ships with the people therein perished ; 
but under the blessing of God, the vessel of the 
state of Albion was by her sage pilot, brought 
to anchor in a secure harbour. 

20 
But, alas 1 the many watchful and anxious 
nights which this pilot had spent, proved fatal 
unto him; and the storm had hardly ceased, 
and the calm returned, when in the midst of 
pious ejaculations for his country's good, he re- 
signed his soul to him who gave it. 

21 
Now, if his departure from this world was 
mourned by the king and people, whom, by 
the grace of God, he had saved from peril and 
ruin, his arrival in the mansions of peace was 
greeted by the patriot and kindred spirits of the 
ancients of Albion. 

22 

And when the king and people, and all that 
were in the vessel, looked back, and thought 
upon the storm which they had escaped, they 
were sore afraid, and thanked God that he had 
delivered them in safety. 

23 

And a warning voice was heard amongst the 
people of Albion, saying, " O people, now that 
your enviable vessel is safely moored in har- 
bour, beware of again driving her into open sea, 
by kindling the fury of your lawless passions, 
or the tempestuous ragings thereof; lest ye 
have not another pilot to weather the storm, 
and lest ye be doomed finally to perish 
therein." 

CHAP. XV. 

1. Mode of Reforming the Commonwealth recommended. 
— 2. Warning* against violent and dangerous changes. 
— 3. Admonitions to the people of Albion in regard 
thereto. 

Let each man amongst you try, and exa- 
mine diligently his own heart, and thereupon 
repent, and amend his life, for by so doing, the 
general corruption of the land will be removed 
in the best, and most effectual manner. 

2 

For it is the wickedness and corruption of 
each man, which compose the aggregate 
wickedness and corruption of the common- 
wealth* 

3 

As it is not every one, say the holy scrip- 
tures, who crieth Lord, Lord ! that shall enter 
into the kingdom of heaven ; neither is it every 
one who crieth thief, thief! of his neighbour, 
that ought to enter into the kingdom of this 
world, or the management of the affairs thereof 

4

For who amongst you that revileth and up- 
braideth his neighbour, can say ; " thank God, 
I am not like unto this man, a sinner ; neither 
do I err in thought, word, or deed' 

5 

Ye who descry the mote in your brother's 
eye, see, that there be not a beam in your own. 

6 

Lay your hands upon your hearts, and en- 
quire, on soul and conscience, whether ye have 
kept all the commandments of. the Lord more 
scrupulously than your neighbour, and whether 
ye be in reality more pure and holy than those 
whom you accuse ? 

7 
For it is to be apprehended, that there are at 
all times amongst the raisers up of strife and 
contention, men of ruined and desperate means. 

8 
Men, who through their own licentiousness, 
prodigality, and extravagant living, have not 
left wherewithal to eat, and drink, and be 
clothed. 

9 

But who hope to gather a plentiful harvest, 
amidst the ruin and desolation of their coun- 
try, and the wreck of their neighbour's estate. 

10 
Take heed, therefore, O people, that there be 
not amongst your clamorous and professed 
friends, u wolves in sheep's clothing !" 

11 
Napoleon, the tyrant, deceitful in heart, soft, 
yet inflammatory in speech, professeth himself, 
in like manner, to be a friend to the people, 
whom he stirreth up against their lawful gover- 
nors, and deceiveth with vain promises and 
hopes ; saying, that he will remove their bur- 
dens, and ameliorate their condition. 

12 
Yet doth not this very man, in whom the 
truth is not, cheat, rob, and murder the people 
every where, and involve them in universal 
thraldom, misery, and ruin ; and are not these 
things made manifest before your eyes ? 

13 
If it hath pleased God, O people of Albion, 
to afflict you with men resembling Napoleon
in ambition, restlessness, deceit, and the hold- 
ing out of promises which they know in their 
hearts to be false and vain ; God be praised thai 
he hath not given unto them the power, nor 
girded them with the conquering sword of the 
cruel and blood-thirsty tyrant ! 

Be not misled, O people of Albion, by the 
heated and designing speeches of men, who as- 
sociate with publicans and sinners, and meet 
for luxurious feastings, and immoderate revel- 
lings. 

15 

They seek to prey upon the vitals of the 
people, and nevertheless " mock the meat they 
feed on." 

16 

Beware, in like manner, of the glowing words, 
and cunning conceits, of modern and stripling 
philosophers, who have acquired a little book- 
ish lore, and dangerous learning. 

17 

Rather incline your ears and your hearts to 
ancient truth, and pay respect to the hoary 
head, and wary hand of age. 

18 

Moreover, it is to be apprehended, that there 
are amongst the professed friends of liberty and 
equality, men of tyrannical and overbearing 
dispositions, devoted to change, restlessness, 
and ambition, irreligious in their doctrines, and 
licentious in their lives. 

19 

Men, ay churchmen too, cruel and tyranni- 
cal in their families, overbearing and superci- 
lious towards their brethren of mankind ; par* 
ticipators in political intrigues, animosities, and 
cabals ; and associators with persons of libertine 
and licentious principles and practice. 

20 

Behold ! how unlike such men are to the 
meek and lowly master, whose servants and fol- 
lowers they impiously and hypocritically pro- 
fess themselves to be. 

21 

Place therefore, O people of Albion, your 
trust in God, and in your good old king and 
his counsellors, for the time being. 

22 

For by so doing, ye shall be rescued from 
the dangers wherewith ye are threatened by 
evil and designing men ; who, Napoleon like, 
seek to make you the tools of their own ambi- 
tion and aggrandisement, and will> like him, 
deride and laugh you to scorn, and trample you 
under their feet, whensoever their own pur- 
poses are accomplished. 

23 
. Finally, stand fast, O Albions, in the liberty 
wherewith God hath made you free, and be not 
again entangled in the snares of wicked and designing men, who from ambition, or for the 
sake of gain,, seek violent and dangerous changes. 



CHAP. XVL 

1. The parable of the Bear and the Monkey. — 2. The 
Monkey is suddenly changed into a Tyger, which de~ 
voureth the Bear, and scatter eth his flesh and his bones 
to the winds of heaven. 

Now a riddle is put forth, and a parable is 
spoken, unto the people of the earth. 

2 
A great bear with brawny paws, and covered with long bristles, is brought forth in the 
north. 

3 
He stretcheth himself over many lands, and 
aweth much people, over whom the hail and 
the snow continually jlo pass. 

4 
Frozen seas and rivers, and plains covered 
with eternal frost, are unto him as dwelling 
places; and the storm which chilleth other 
beasts, even unto death, beateth upon him as 
upon a rock, which is covered with furs and 
with skins. 

5 
His nightly path is lighted by fiery spectres, 
that sport and dance along the polar sky, and 
play amidst the wintry stars. 

6 
Fierce is the bear, and not to be conquered 
by fear or force. 

7 
Now in the western regions there liveth an 
animal which is fashioned somewhat after the 
image of man, and is endowed with cunning, 
fawning, and deceit, and lo ! this animal is called 
a monkey.

8 
Now the bear and the monkey having met 
each other, the bear was pleased with the mon- 
key, who caressed and soothed him, and told 
him, what a mighty beast he was. 

9
So the bear allowed the monkey from time to 

time to play and frisk around him ; but it came 
to pass, that the monkey having scratched the 
bear, he thereupon raised his bristles, and threat- 
ened to hug the monkey to death. 

10 
Nevertheless the monkey contrived yet again 
to soothe the bear, and he fawned upon him 
and caressed him, and whispered soft and pleas- 
ing things in his ear. 

11 
And the bear and the monkey became ex- 
ceeding great friends, and met and communed 
together, and finally agreed to divide the north 
and the west betwixt them. 

12 
So they went on paw in paw, and the bear 
grinned smiles to the monkey, while the mon- 
key played in sportive mirth around the bear. 

13 
Now it so happened, that the bear was lulled 
asleep by the soft fawnings of the monkey. 

14 
And in his sleep he dreamed a dream, and 
behold the dream was, that the monkey had 
put out one of his eyes, and bit in twain the 
strongest sinew in his most powerful paw. 

So he awoke with a mighty growl, and rose 
in his wrath to destroy the monkey. 

16 

But Io ! when he awoke from his dream, half 
blind, and half lame, he beheld before him no 
longer the feeble fawning monkey, his former 
friend and favourite ; but a fierce and furious 
tyger, who at one dart devoured him> and seiz- 
ed as his prey the lands over which he had been 
in use to rule. 

17 
And the tyger tore the bear into pieces, and 
scattered his flesh and his bones to the winds of 
heaven. 

18 
For unto this monkey, in which there was 
heretofore the heart, there has moreover been 
superadded the power and strength of the 
tyger. 



CHAP. XVII. 



The Vision of Eliakim. 


Now it came to pass in the dread hour of 
night, when mortal man, and all living crea- 
tures, lay overwhelmed in sleep, that a vision 
appeared unto me. 



Then I beheld, and lo ! the likeness of an 
angel of heaven, clothed in a fine linen robe, 
white as snow, came unto me, and put forth 
the form of an hand ! 

3 

And the angel lifted me up between the earth 
and the heavens, and carried me to the region 
pf visions, and put me on an high place, that 
looketh towards the four corners of the earth ! 

4 

Then he touched my sight, and said unto 
me, open thine eyes ; so I opened mine eyes, 
and beheld spread before me sundry lands, peo- 
ple, and languages. 

5 

And upon a throne, made of gold, and co- 
vered with crimson, raised as it were in the 
midst of the nations, I saw a man seated in 
great majesty and power. 

6 

And around the throne there stood multi- 
tudes of armed men, and captains of hosts, ad- 
ministering unto the will and pleasure of the 
man who was seated on the throne. 

7 
Now, while I was yet looking, he descended 

therefrom, and mounted a beast, like unto a dra- 
gon in shape and in kind, and the man and the 
dragon became as one ; and from the eyes there- 
of there proceeded flashes of devouring fire. 

8 
Then the angel said unto me, turn thine eyes 
the way toward the north ; so I turned mine 
eyes the way toward the north. 


9 
But my vision being imperfect, I looked up 
to the firmament of heaven, to discover whence 
this gloomy light proceeded, and what might 
be the cause thereof. 

10 
And behold the sun which was in the firma- 
ment shone as it were through blood, and all 
things on earth reddened unto the eye. 

11 
Nevertheless, I could see the fiery dragon 
move with exceeding great quickness to and 
fro; and wheresoever he went, he was fol- 
lowed by the numerous captains of hosts, and 
the multitudes of armies, which I had observ- 
ed standing and administering around the 
throne. 

12 
Now I saw these armies deal death, and 
spread desolation over the face of the earth. 

13 
And when the armies of other nations en- 
countered those of the dragon, I beheld the 
plains of the earth beneath me heaped with 
slain, and the great rivers thereof, rolling purple streams and mangled corpses into the 
ocean. 

14 
Flames issued from the towns and cities of 
the land, and the lamentations of widows and 
orphans rent the skies ! 

15 
Deep groans were heaved by the wounded 
and the dying ; and I saw as it were in the si- 
lent hour of night, ghosts stalking over the field 
of death 1 

16 
See ! the thin and meagre spectre of famine 
crawlf along the desolated plain ! 

17 
Behold ! the sable image of pestilence comes 
to complete the unfinished work of the slaught- 
ering sword, and chokes up the half filled se- 
pulchre ! 

18 
Now exceeding great fear and trembling 
seized my frame, and withdrawing mine eyes 
from this terrible sight, I turned them towards 
the angel for safety and consolation. 


19 
Nay, in the height of my terror, I endea- 
voured to seize his hand ; but the form thereof 
eluded the touch of mortal man \ 

20 
Nevertheless, I saw the angel turn aside and 
weep, and behold a crystal drop fell upon the 
skirts of his snow white raiment \ 



CHAP. XVIII. 

The Vision Continued. 

And the angel said furthermore unto me, 
turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see strange 
things. 

2 

So my spirit revived within me, and I turned 
yet again, and behold I saw mighty forges, and 
from the forges there issued the sound of many 
hammers ; and I moreover heard the clanking 
of chains, and saw many thousands of cap- 
tives loaded therewith, coming and going differ^ 
ent ways. 


3 

And the angel observing that I marvelled 
within myself, said unto me, behold the dragon 
who is at the head of the devouring armies thou 
seest, causeth the nations over which he ruleth 
to forge fetters for themselves. 

4 

And the thousands thou observest pro- 
ceeding from the throne, goaded with chains, 
and guarded by soldiers, are the young men of 
the land, who, torn from their homes, their fa- 
milies, and friends, are forced to fill up the 
waste occasioned in the armies of the dragon 
by the sword which is without, and the pesti- 
lence and famine which rage within. 

5 

The thousands, again, whom thou seest re- 
turning from the armies without, and proceed- 
ing as it were towards the throne, covered 
with wounds, and loaded with chains, hun- 
gry, naked, and emaciated, are the captives 
which the dragon and his armies have taken in 
war ; and those men in armour thou seest con- 
ducting them are the very same who, a short 
while before, were themselves dragged to the 
field of battle. 

6 
Moreover, sayeth the angel, not only do the 
nations thou beholdest work out the chains 
wherewith they are themselves fettered; but 
they moreover shed their blood in order to pur- 
chase them, as if bondage were as sweet, and 
as much to be prized as thou, " O thrice pre- 
cious liberty !" 

7 
Then he said unto me, now behold the lesser 
thrones which surround the greater one, from 
N which thou sawest the dragon descend, to 
spread on every side ruin and desolation, ra- 
pine, murder, and slavery. 

8 
So I turned mine eyes towards the thrones, 
and behold I saw them, in like manner as 
that of the dragon, by whom they had been 
reared, encircled and supported by blood-thirsty 
legions. 

9 
And the angel yet again desired me to turn 
mine eyes the way toward the north, and be- 
hold I there saw a throne, on which was seated 
a powerful ruler. 

10 

And around this throne there sat fawning 
and deceitful men, who never ceased whisper- 
ing in the ear of the man on the throne, s*ft 
and blandishing things. 

11 

And this man having descended from the 
throne, in the midst of his courtiers and flatter- 
ers, went into his palace. 

12 

And the angel brought me, as it were, to the 
gate of the palace $ and when I looked, behold, 
I saw women in loose and gay attire, and of 
wanton looks and gestures, waiting the arrival 
of the king. 

13 

And they also whispered soft and blandish- 
ing things in his ear, and gave strength to the 
guile and deceit which the courtiers and flatter- 
ers had been practising around the throne. 

14 

Now, the angel having again observed me to 
marvel at these things, said, behold the flatterers and courtiers whom thou sawest around the 
throne, and the cunning and deceitful women 
whom thou now seest in the palace, are hired 
by the dragon to divert the attention of the 
powerful monarch thou beholdest, from the de- 
signs of the dragon, that he may not be molest-, 
ed in the execution thereof, until a convenient 
season shall arrive for overthrowing the ruler of 
this nation also. 

15 

Now the angel bade me turn mine eyes once 
more towards the frightful and hideous prospect 
which lay spread before me, 

16 

Lo ! the heavenly and cheering voice of free- 
dom was stilled, and not to be heard amongst 
the nations, and dreary and universal slavery 
seemed to prevail throughout the earth ! 

17 
The tongue of the patriot orator was dumb, 
and sealed up ; the pen of the writer was taken 
from him ! 

18 

The prison doors were ever grating on their
massy hinges, and the dreary dungeon was ever 
opening its hideous jaws ! 

19 
And the angel of heaven brought me to the 
door of one of the many strong places which I 
beheld. 

20 
When lo ! I saw in a horrid cell, a pale and 
emaciated prisoner, goaded with iron chains, 
pining away in dreary and forlorn confine- 
ment! 

21 
Hunger and disease were pourtrayed on his 
woe-worn countenance ! 

22 
A tyrant's fiat had excluded him from the 
sweet society of men, and from the cheering 
light of the sun, and had doomed him to be- 
come a prey to corruption, and the reptiles 
of the earth I 

23 
Now when I beheld these things, my spirit 
failed me, and I would have sunk in grief and 
despair, had not the angel supported me. 

24 

And turning unto the angel, I said, How 
cometh it that the Lord doth not deliver the 
dragon into the hands of the people, that they 
may slay him, and thereby remove the direful 
sufferings of the nations ? 

25 

But behold the angel looked me in the face 
and chid me, saying ; Knowest not thou, frail 
man, that the Lord of heaven and earth doeth 
that which seemeth good unto him ? 

26 

" Lo ! many of the nations thou now seest 
suffering under the dragon, were worshippers of 
the first idol, which is called Licentiousness ; 
and until they shall by repentance and amend- 
ment of life, have expiated the crimes which 
they thereby committed, the sun of liberty 
which thou observedst to be nearly darkened in 
blood, shall not rise upon them, nor until then, 
shall their bonds be broken asunder, 

27 
Behold ! the hundred headed monster when 
let loose on the earth, was guilty of all manner 
of crime, cruelty, and oppression ; and shall not 
the dragon in like manner learn to catch 1iis 
prey and feed in his turn, on the blood and 
vitals of the monster ? 



CHAP. XIX. 

The End of the Vision. 

Now the angel, perceiving that my spirit was 
sore troubled and vexed within me at what I 
had beheld, took compassion upon me, and bade 
me turn mine eyes toward the west. 

So I did as he spake, and behold my heart 
was cheered with a seemly prospect. 

3 

For lo ! in the midst of the ocean, I beheld a 
fair and beautiful island, on which the sun of 
freedom shone with exceeding brightness. 

4 

Her flowery meadows were inviting to the 
eye, and numerous herds and flocks were feed- 
ing on her verdant pastures. 

5 
Methought I heard the murmuring of her 
water brooks, and the sweet melody of the birds 
of her woods. 

6 
The shepherd leaning on his crook, stood mus- 
ing on the face of the hill, tending his peace- 
ful fold ; and the husbandman was reaping in 
gladness the rich crop he had sown in the spring. 

7 
Now in the midst of the numerous herds in 
the island, I saw a sturdy bull with terrible 
horns, the guardian of the flock. 

8 
And the bull who roared and bellowed with 
mighty ire, stood on the sea shore, with his head 
turned towards the land of troubles, wherein 
the dragon prevailed. 

9 
And lo ! I asked the angel whence arose the 
great fury of the bull ? 

10 
And he spake, and said unto me, that the 
dragon which was on the opposite side of the 
sea, had often threatened the safety of the flock 



4 



Chap. XIX. NAPOLEON. 117 

and of the land ; but that the bull terrified him, 
and was ready to toss him and gore him to 
death, if peradventure he came within his 
reach. 

11 

Now the angel said, to the intent that I might 
shew thee all these things art thou brought hi- 
ther, go, therefore, and declare all that thou 
hist seen to the people of Albion, 

12 

And warn them against the perverse wicked- 
ness which brought upon the other nations of 
the earth, the great and terrible calamities which 
thou hast now beheld with thine eyes, and heard 
with thine ears. 

13

And behold ! how glad was I when I awoke 
and found myself in the peaceful and plentiful 
land of my fathers ! 

14 

Yea, that very land over which good king 
Albanus reigns, whose throne is reared on love, 
and not on terror ; and around which there ad- 
minister not blood-thirsty legions, but the ho- 
ly keepers of the sacred records of religion, and 
the guardians of the rights and privileges of the 
people ; the learned in wisdom and in counsel, 
and in the laws of the land. 

14 

That land in which the law knoweth no dis- 
tinction of rank, hut is administered with im- 
partial justice to the high and to the low, the 
rich and the poor, and in which every man is 
tried by his equals. 

15 

That land in which the voice of genuine free- 
dom is triumphant. 

16 

In which the tongue of the senator is free 
even to abuse, and the pen of the writer with 
impunity inditeth scandalous things. 

17 
That land to which imprisonment and death 
are strangers, save where impartial justice, and 
venerable law inflict them on the guilty head. 

18 
That free and happy land, in which an hair 
of the head, or a morsel of bread, of the mean- 
est of one of the people, cannot be injured 
even by the king on the throne ! 

Give not, then, grudgingly, O people of Al- 
bion, but with a willing heart, that which is 
necessary to maintain your happiness and great- 
ness, and to protect you against the scourges 
of the tyrant Napoleon. 

For in place of a part, he would take from 
you all that belongeth, and is dear unto you ; 
and would moreover put your wives and your 
children to the sword, and cover the land where- 
in ye dwell with desolation and bloodshed. 



CHAP. XX. 

The warnings and admonitions which the Angel gave 
in commission, to be delivered unto the King of Al- 
bion, and to hisjirst born, and to all the sons and 
daughters of the King. — % As also unto the Rulers 
and Counsellors of the land, and the Judges thereof y 
and unto all the people who dwell therein. 

Listen then, and give ear, O people of Al- 
bion, to the warnings and admonitions which 
the angel of heaven gave in commission to be 
delivered unto you. 

2 

Beware, O Albions, of the worship of the first 
idol, which is called Licentiousness ; because, 
on the day ye worship the same, ye shall surely 
perish. 

3 

l 

And the wrath of the Lord shall be kindled 
against you, even unto your utter ruin and de- 
struction. 

For if it shall so happen, that ye listen unto 
the deceits and seductions of the idol, and 
give yourselves up after the manner of the 
Gauls, unto sedition, conspiracy, and rebellion, 
treason, irreligion, and tumult, which are the 
fruits thereof; the same judgments shall visit 
you, which visited the land of Gaul, and fire 
and sword, rapine and murder, blood and fa-, 
mine, shall light upon the land. 

5 
And after the manner of the Gauls, and of 
the other nations above written, ye shall be de- 
livered into the hands of the second idol, Napo- 
leon, or of some such terrible scourge. 

6 
And ye shall be deprived of the great and in- 
valuable blessings which you and your forefa- 
thers have enjoyed for many generations, as the 
reward of righteousness and of truth. 

7 

Furthermore, your lands shall be desolated 
and laid waste, and your silver and gold, and 
your corn, and your cattle, and your sheep, and 
whatsoever is precious unto you, shall be taken 
away. 

Your cities, towns, and villages, shall be burnt 
and destroyed, and your sons and your daugh- 
ters ; yea, even your first born shall be led into 
captivity. 

9 

Ye shall be scourged, and ruled with a rod of 
iron, and all the threats and boastings of Napo- 
leon, which it hath pleased the Lord for the 
present to turn far from you, shall be visited up- 
on you, and your children's children, to the 
third -and fourth generation. 

10 

For lo ! the same God that hath delivered 
the other nations of the earth into the hands of 
the Tyrant, because of their unrighteousness, 
can do so unto you in like manner. 

11 

And the same God that hath given unto Na- 
poleon the dominion over the land, can, in the 
fulness of his power, also give unto him the domi- 
nion over the mighty deep. 

12 

So that he may pass over the sea which divideth the land of Gaul from the land of Albion, with his warlike and numerous hosts, and 
overcome the people thereof, and slay them with 
great slaughter, and smite them from off the face 
of the earth. 

13 

Beware, therefore, O people of Albion, of the 
crafts and subtleties of the devil, who was 
heretofore in the form of the first idol, namely, 
Licentiousness, and now appeareth in the shape 
of Napoleon, the second idol of the Gauls. 

14 

For unto whom can this man be likened, but 
unto Satan, the enemy of mankind ! 

15 

Continue, O good king Albanus ! as here- 
tofore, to fear God, and keep his command- 
ments, and to walk humbly before the Lord thy 
God, 

16 

Let gentleness and mercy, peace and truth, 
piety and devotion, continue to mark thy paths, 
and make thee a bright and shining example 
of all manner of virtue unto the people, over 
whom the Lord hath appointed thee to reign 
in gladness and prosperity. 

17 

For by so doing, the people shall prosper in 
all manner of health and wealth ; and when it 
shall please God to call thee, after having reign- 
ed for many years yet to come, from thine 
earthly kingdom, he will give unto thee a crown 
of glory, happiness, and immortality, in the king- 
dom of heaven, which knoweth no end, and is 
visited with no tribulation. 

18 

O prince ! thou first born of good king Al- 
banus, set before thee and follow the example 
of thy royal parent, and like him, fear God and 
keep his commandments. 

19 

So that the people over whom thou shalt 
peradventure rule, may, from a regard to thy 
person, and reverence for thy virtues, be in the 
hour of danger as a wall of defence round about 
thy throne, as in the time of the king thy fa- 
ther. 

20 
Be assured, O prince ! that virtue and righte- 
ousness, are the firmest pillars of the throne, 
and of the state ; and that without them there is 
neither happiness nor safety in earthly things. 

21 

For lo ! even so it is, as written in this book, 
that all the kings and nations of the earth, 
who have fallen in these latter days, were es- 
tranged from God, and had become wicked 
in the imaginations of their hearts, and practi- 
ces of their lives ; so that it pleased the Lonr 
to deliver them into the hands of their enemies, 
and to destroy them altogether. 

22 

But it hath hitherto seemed good unto the 
Almighty, to spare the nation over whom thou 
art destined peradventure to reign; because 
of the goodness of the king thy father, and of 
the people over whom he ruleth. 

23 

Take awful warning, therefore, from the fall 
of other princes; honour the king, and fear 
and obey the only true and living God, so that 
when thy royal father is called unto his hea- 
venly kingdom, thou mayest reign in his stead 
for many days and years, over a free, loving, and 
happy people. 

24 

Then, when the evil day cometh, thou shalt 
not be afraid, and in the time of affliction, and 
at the hour of death, thou shalt be comforted, 
and supported by the spirit of God. 

25 

Now, O ye princes, and princesses of the 
land of Albion ! as it hath pleased God to exalt 
you in rank, so may ye be eminent for virtue 
and piety. 

26 

Thereby affording comfort and happiness to 
your royal parents in the evening of their days ; 
and to your inferiors a salutary example of alt 
goodness and excellence. 

27 
Nor let it be said in ire, by the people who 
uphold you, that the grey hairs of your royal 
and beloved parents descend with sorrow to 
the grave, because of the sins and iniquities of 
their children. 


CHAP. XXL 

Admonitions and Warnings to the Priests and Nobles of 
the land. — 2. To the Representatives and Counsellors of 
the people. — 3. To Judges and Magistrates. 

O ye chief priests of the land and preach- 
ers of the gospel of truth ! remember whose ser- 
vants ye are ; and while with your lips ye are 
proclaiming goodly instructions, and holy 
things, let your lives be patterns of all manner 
of virtue. 

2 

And thus give testimony to the excellency of 
the doctrines which ye preach and profess, as 
the ministers of a great and just God. 

3 

Banish far from you hypocrisy, worldly mind- 
edness, licentiousness of life and doctrine, and 
all other unrighteousness. 

4 

While ye are administering spiritual and e- 
verlasting things, do not be constantly grasp- 
ing at those which are temporal and perishing, 
and thereby manifesting too great a desire for 
the honours and enjoyments of this mortal life. 

5 
For whensoever ye act in this manner, ye 
belie the doctrines which ye preach, and are a 
reproach to the religion of Christ. 

6 
Remember, that unto you is committed the 
care and guidance of the souls of the people of 
this world, for which you must be one day ac- 
countable ; and that your own souls are in the 
power of that great and pure Judge, at whose 
tribunal you must answer for your sacred charge 
with severe scrutiny, and stand or fall accord- 
ingly. 

7 

Ye nobles of the land ! upon whom it hath 
pleased God to bestow honour, p&wer, and 
wealth, let your rank be no less distinguished 
for its dignity, than for its goodness and virtue. 

8 
Command the respect and esteem of your in- 
feriors, by eminent and conspicuous virtues and 
excellencies, and conciliate their love and at 
fection by mercy, tenderness, and condescen- 
sion. 

9 

In order thereto, be not strangers unto the 
people ; but dwell in the mansions, and on the 
lands wherewith God blessed your noble fathers 
before you, and hath now blessed you ; and be 
in the midst of your kinsmen and dependents, 
to comfort, and do them good. 

10 

For otherwise, if ye reside in great and cor- 
rupt cities, afar off from the people, and thus 
become estranged from them, how can they 
stand you in stead in the day of trouble and 
danger, as in the times of your fathers ? 

11 

Then shall the land rejoice, and be glad of its 
nobles, ancf prosperity and security shall attend 
them ; nor shall they be overthrown and destroy- 
ed, after the manner of those of the land of Gaul, 
and of the other nations of the earth, who were 
unmindful of these things, and consequently be- 
came the sport and derision of the multitude, 
who houted and trampled them under foot. 

12 

Ye representatives and counsellors of the 
people, and members of the great assembly of 
the nation ! be exemplary, in like manner, for 
the purity and integrity of your conduct ; fear 
God and honour the king! 

13 

Then shall your counsets prosper, and con- 
duce to the good of the state ; nor be like unto 
chaff, or the counsel of the ungodly, which is 
brought to nought, and driven to and fro. 

14 

Cease from all manner of wrangling, reviling, 
strife, and vain contention, which serve only to 
distract the measures of good king Albanus, at 
a time when nearly all the world have combin- 
ed, and are waging cruel war against him, and 
threaten to destroy him and his people. 

15 

Unite with the king, your good and lawful 
governor, in heart and hand, and as one man, 
that the people may do so in like manner ; lest 
the enemy, seeing a house divided against itself, rejoice, and say unto themselves; <c Let us persevere, for we shall assuredly prevail in the 
end." 

16 
" For this people must fall into our hands be- 
cause of their strife, and vain contentions in the 
hour of danger, and when the battle is at their 
gates." 

17 

Take warning, then, O great assembly of the 
nation ! and let not contention, selfish conside- 
rations, and vain glory, harden your hearts, and 
darken your understandings, in the moment of 
mighty trouble and peril, while the land in 
which you dwell, and the king and people who 
put their trust in you, are beset on every 
side, and threatened with universal ruin and de- 
struction. 

18 

O ye judges, and ministers of the laws of the 
land ! be ye also conspicuous for all manner of 
purity, and rectitude of conduct ; and let inte- 
grity and truth, justice and mercy, mark all 
your ways and judgments. 

So that ye may be approved of men in this 
world, and of God in the world to come, when 
called upon to answer for your judgments on 
earth, at a tribunal in heaven of infallible wis- 
dom and justice, 

20 
Magistrates and inferior judges of the land ! 
hold fast your integrity and loyalty, and while 
you are a pattern to the people in the purity 
of your lives, keep them also in respectful 
subordination and obedience to the laws ; that 
they may not violate the same, and like the 
Gauls revel in all manner of iniquity and li- 
centiousness, to their own bitter misery and 
ruin. 

21 
O ye people of Albion ! rich and poor, young 
and old ! hear what the warning voice of hea- 
ven hath to say unto you. 

22 
Whosoever it hath pleased God to bless in 
his store, let him beware lest he forget who is 
the Lord,, and let him remember that his wealth 
and riches are a sacred trust, placed in his 
hands for the good and comfort of his less fa- 
voured, poor, and wretched fellow-creatures. 

23 
And for that trust he must render an account 
to him who gave it, at the final day of retribu- 
tion, and according to the account which he 
rendereth, shall his doom be determined. 

24 
Whosoever it hath pleased God to afflict with 
poverty, " Let him beware lest he put forth his 
hand and steal." 

25 
Let him remember also that his afflictions are, 
as it were, but for a moment, and that true hap- 
piness is alone to be found in the heavenly man- 
sions. 

26 
That the treasures of this life are fleeting and 
uncertain, and mixed with many alloys. 

CHAP. XXII. 

Admonitions to the Matrons and Daughters of Albion. 

O ye matrons of Albion! shew unto the 
daughters thereof an example of prudence and 
propriety in speech, as well as in behaviour ; 
and make home comfortable and inviting to 
your husbands. 

2 

Be careful of your domestic concerns, and 
avoid all revellings and gossipings at home or 
abroad, by night or by day. 

3 

Above all, be chaste and virtuous, and faith- 
ful to the marriage bed, employing yourselves 
chiefly, not in mirth, gaiety, and feasting ; but 
in the care and education of your children, im- 
planting in their tender minds the principles 
of virtue and religion. 

4 

For true it is, that upon the mother often de- 
pends the important trust of instilling into the 
minds of her children, those leading truths of 
religion and morality, which are to become the 
foundation of their individual excellence and 
happiness in life, and of their usefulness to their 
country. 

5 

And be assured, O mothers of families ! that 
your duty in this respect is not less sacred than 
that of the ministers of our holy religion ! 

6 

For while your husbands are engaged in their 
worldly avocations, to you is assigned the im- 
portant task of laying the ground-work, on 
which the future superstructure of virtue must 
be raised. 

7 
Daughters of Albion ! as ye are fair to look 
upon, so also be ye chaste, modest, and virtuous ! 

8 
More careful and solicitous about the graces 
of the mind, than the ornaments of the person. 

9 
Cultivate and enrich your minds with every 
useful, amiable, and ornamental virtue. 

10 
Guard against the frivolities and absurdities 
of the frantic manners and fashions of the age 
in which ye live. 

11 
Let your attire be decent and becoming, 
neat and elegant ; not too slender, expensive, 
or gaudy ; but fitted for the land in which ye 
five, and proportioned to the means wherewith 
God hath blessed you. 

12 
Let not your eyes roam boldly on the faces 
of men, neither affect the coy air, nor assume 
the wanton gait. 

13 
But let your beauty shine, and your charms 
disclose themselves, in gentle and diffident de- 
portment, and in the downcast look of virtu- 
ous modesty. 

14 
Train yourselves up to those virtues and ac- 
complishments fitted to make you amiable mo- 
thers of children, so that the places of the de- 
parted matrons of the land may be properly 



Chap. XXII. NAPOLEON. 137 

supplied, and the young men thereof blessed 
with good wives. 

15 

Well knowest thou, O woman ! the power 
and controul which thou possessest over the 
heart of man. 

16 

Thou canst either lead him by thy soft persuasions, to the holy altars of religion ; correct 
his wandering and licentious thoughts, and 
animate him with the love of virtue and of 
glory ! 

17 
Or thou canst by the same means call into 
action the vilest propensities of his nature, 
blow his passions into flame, and stir him up to 
treason and to crimes ! 

18 
Use, therefore, thy influence discreetly, and 
to good account, inspiring the young men of 
the land with the love of their king and their 
country* 

19 
Stimulating them, moreover, to the defence 
thereof, that they may prove a safeguard 
around thee, O fair one of Albion ! and pre- 
serve thy person from the insult of a brutal 
foe! 

20 
Heaven and victory forbid ! that ever a hos- 
tile soldier should take a daughter of Albion by 
the hand, or disturb the repose of her peaceful 
fireside. 

21 
Heaven forbid ! that ever a hostile soldier 
should reap the rich crops, or eat the fair bread 
of Albion ! 

22 
Heaven and victory forbid ! that ever an in- 
vading foe should pollute the holy and sacred 
altars of the land, or tread upon the revered 
tombs of her departed fathers I 

23 
It is the recollection of thee, O woman ! the 
desire of obtaining thy admiration, and of se- 
curing thy safety, that often animates the war- 
rior in the direful conflict, and careless of dan- 
ger, makes him pant for glory and for victory ! 

24 
Noble and fascinating are thy attributes,
when governed by religion, patriotism, know- 
ledge, and the gentler graces ; but ah ! how ter- 
rible when perverted and corrupted in their na- 
tive and genuine sources; how ruinous to 
mankind, and subversive of the social com- 
pact! 

25 

Neither say, O woman! that too much is 
herein ascribed to thy influence. 

26 

The tempting persuasions of Eve ended in 
the fall of man, and the loss of paradise ! 

27 
The infidelity of Helen proved the downfall 
of Troy, and brought upon Greece a train of 
innumerable ills ! 

28 

The soothing blandishments of Cleopatra lost 
the world to Mark Anthony ! 

CHAP. XXIII. 


. General Admonitions to the People of Albion* 

O ye ancients of the land ! let your grey 
hairs be unto you a crown of glory ; and when 
your hoary heads descend into the grave, your 
souls shall ascend to heaven, and mingle with 
the spirits of the just ! 

2 

Ye who rejoice in your youth, and the ful- 
ness of your strength ! remember that disease, 
age, and death, are rapidly advancing. 

3 

Devote, therefore, the strength of your days 
to the practice of whatever is good and amia- 
ble, so that when the infirmities of nature shall 
overtake you, you may be found in the full pos- 
session of a virtuous and vigorous soul, and die 
the death of the righteous ! 



Chip. XXIII. NAPOLEON. 141 

4 
Parents ! be careful to inculcate on the minds 
of your children the precepts of religion and 
morality, and exemplify the same in the parity 
and holiness of your own lives. 
5 
Children and little ones ! obey the precepts 
and admonitions of your parents, fear God and 
honour the king ! 

6 
So that if it shall please the Almighty to sum- 
mon you hence, you may be reunited to those 
companions of your innocent years, who may 
have gone before you to the mansions of peace ! 
7 
When, therefore, your spotless souls shall be 
required of you ; may the whispering angel say j 
" Sister spirit, come away," — " For of such is 
the kingdom of God !" 
8 
Masters ! be gentle to, and reasonable with 
your servants, and inferiors, even as you expect 
the God. of heaven to be merciful unto you. 
9 
Servants 1 see that ye be honest, faithful, and 
obedient to your earthly master in all things, so 
that ye may be approven of by your heavenly 
master, and thereby receive at his hands, those 
wages which are kept in store for the humble 
heirs of immortality. 

10 

For when changed by death, ye shall experi- 
ence none of the distinctions which God in 
his infinite wisdom has appointed to prevail in 
this lower world. 

11 

Then lo ! a voice from heaven was heard, say- 
ing ; " if the people of Albion shall listen unto 
these warnings and admonitions, the blessings 
which the only true and living God hath vouch- 
safed, shall be continued unto them, and to their 
children's children for generations yet unborn !" 

12 

" The land wherein they dwell shall bring forth 
Iier increase, and God, even their own God, 
shall give them his blessing!" 

13 

" The dominion over the sea, and health and 
wealth, and all manner of security and happiness 
shall moreover be continued unto the people 
thereof 1" 

14 

" But if they shall, on the contrary, despise 
these warnings and admonitions, thousands and 
ten thousands of evils shall afflict the land ; and 
the inhabitants thereof shall be delivered into 
the hands of their enemies." 

15 

" And all the judgments foretold and de- 
nounced in this book shall come upon the peo- 
ple, and scourge them ; yea, even unto the ex- 
cessive bitterness of their souls." 

16 

And when the voice had ceased speaking, the 
people marvelled within themselves and said, 
cc yea, verily, these sayings are worthy of all 
acceptation!" 

17 
" Now, therefore, let us fear and worship the 
God of our fathers, and keep his command- 
ments !" 

18 
€€ Moreover, let us serve, honour, and obey the 
king whom the Lord hath appointed to rule over 
us in justice and mercy !" 

19 
And lo ! an echo proceeding as it were from 
the mountains and the Tallies, cried with a 
mighty voice — AMEN* 



CONCLUSION. 



145 



CONCLUSION, 

Thus endeth the First Book of Napoleon* 
the Tyrant of the Earth ; and if it shall please 
God to prolong unto the Author thereof, the 
blessing of life, uiitil the Tyrant is either slain 
by the glittering sword of man, or cut down by 
the table Bey the of death, a Second Volume 
shall then be written. 

It is, however, devoutly to be wished, that 
the remainder of the Tyrant's days and deeds, 
may be comprised in a short and early epitaph. 

Yet this man, amidst all his evils, has, through 
the wise ordination of Providence, been of use 
to the present generation, by counteracting the 
spirit of revolution, impatience of legitimate au- 
thority, and proneness to violent and dangerous 
changes. 

He has moreover diverted to manly and 
warlike ends the overflowing wealth of Al- 
bion, wherewith she might otherwise have pur- 
chased her own ruin. By his menaces her 
young men have been awakened from the slum- 
bers of luxurious sloth, and roused and inured 
to the art and toils of war, and thus has Albion 
become invincible, a terror to all her enemies, 
and to none more than to the Tyrant himself. 

Now, may good king Albanus continue to 
reign for many days and years in health and 
wealth, and in the hearts of a brave, loyal, free, 
happy, and loving people, who never cease 
shouting all day long, " O King, live forever!" 

ELIAKIM. 

END OF BOOK I. 


Printed by John Moir, Royal Bank Clo»e, Edinburfk, 